1 

Introduction 

1.1 

The Purposes and Aims of the BDCP 

In accordance with Section 4.15 of the Environmental Planning and Assessment (EP&A) Act 1979, 
Burwood  Council  as  the  consent  authority  is  required  to  take  into  consideration  the  relevant 
provisions of any Development Control Plan (DCP) in determining an application for development 
that requires consent in the Burwood Local Government Area (LGA) as established in an applicable 
environmental  planning  instrument.  In  most  cases  this  will  be  the  Burwood  Local  Environmental 
Plan (BLEP) 2012 but also may be a State Environmental Planning Policy (SEPP). 

This DCP has been prepared in accordance with Section 3.43  of the EP&A Act and clauses 16 – 
21 of the EP&A Regulation 2000. Its purposes are: 

To make more detailed provisions on matters that may be prescribed by a DCP that help achieve 
the purpose and aims of the BLEP 2012. 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
To identify additional requirements for Development Applications to be advertised or notified. 

To  provide  for  other  things  permitted  by  the  EP&A  Act  to  be  prescribed  by  a  development 
control plan. 

The aims of this DCP are: 

To provide a clear framework of detailed provisions to be complied with or taken into account 
in  development  assessment  for  the  assistance  of  the  community  and  the  development 
industry.  

To  help  maintain  and  enhance  the  quality  of  the  natural  and  built  environments  in  the 
Burwood LGA through the development assessment process. 

To improve the environmental and social sustainability of development. 

To increase the participation of the community in development assessment decisions. 

1.2 

Citation  

This  document  shall  be  formally  cited  as  the  Burwood  Development  Control  Plan,  or  in  brief  “the 
BDCP” or “the DCP”. 

1.3 

Land and Development Covered by this Plan  

The BDCP applies to all the land located in the Burwood LGA in accordance with the BLEP 2012 
Land  Application  Map.  The  BDCP  must  be  taken  into  account  by  the  consent  authority  in 
determining Development Applications within the Burwood LGA. 

This  BDCP  does  not  apply  to  exempt  development  or  to  applications  for  complying  development 
certificates under Division 4.5 of Part 4 of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979. 

1.4 

Date on Which the BDCP Takes Effect 

This Plan was adopted by Burwood Council on 12 February 2013 and came into effect on 1 March 
2013.    

1.5 

Amendments to the BDCP 

Amendments  may  be  made  to  the  BDCP  over  the  course  of  its  operation.  Details  of  the 
amendments are as follows: 

6 

 
 
 
 
General Description of the Amendment 

Adoption Date 

Effective Date 

Amendment No. 1: Review of the BDCP  

17 February 2014 

4 March 2014 

Amendment No. 2: Awning Controls 

23 February 2015 

10 March 2015 

Amendment No. 3: Review of the BDCP  

22 November 2016  6 December 2016 

Amendment No. 4: Review of the BDCP  

26 June 2018 

1 August 2018 

1.6 

Relationship to Other Plans and Policies 

On its commencement the BDCP repeals and replaces any preceding DCP or DCP Part adopted 
by Council. The preceding documents will cease to have any effect.  

The BDCP sits under and should be read in conjunction with the BLEP 2012. In accordance with 
the EP&A Act, a provision of a DCP has no effect to the extent that: 

It is the same or substantially the same as the provision of an environmental planning instrument 
applying to the same land, or 

It is inconsistent with a provision of any such instrument or its application prevents compliance with 
a provision of any such instrument. 

Therefore  if  there  is  any  inconsistency  between  the  BDCP  and  the  BLEP  2012,  the  BLEP  will 
prevail.  

1.7 

Structure of the BDCP 

Part 1  Introduction 

This Part identifies the purpose and statutory functions of the BDCP.  

Part 2  Environmental Planning in the Burwood LGA 

This  Part  outlines  Burwood’s  broad  planning  context  and  Council’s  approach  to  environmental 
planning  that  underpins  the  BDCP.  The  general  requirements  for  analysis,  consideration  and 
management  of  site  requirements  and  the  locational  context  of  development  established  in  this 
Part. 

Part 3  Development Provisions for Centres and Corridors 

This  Part  establishes  the  planning  objectives  and  provisions  to  apply  to  different  types  of 
development in Burwood’s business centres and the Parramatta Road corridor. This Part also deals 
with transport, parking, heritage and other matters related to development in centres and corridors. 
Council may apply the relevant provisions where a type of development covered by this DCP part is 
permitted in a non-business zone. 

Part 4  Development Provisions for Residential Areas 

This  Part  establishes  the  planning  objectives  and  provisions  to  apply  to  different  types  of 
development in Burwood’s residential zones. This Part also deals with transport, parking, heritage 
and  other  matters  related  to  development  in  residential  areas.  Council  may  apply  the  relevant 
provisions where a type of development covered by this DCP part is permitted in a non-residential 
zone. 

Part 5  Other Development Provisions 

This  Part  concerns  other  significant forms  of  development  that may  occur  in  several  of the  BLEP 
2012’s zones, and warrant specific statements of planning objectives and provisions. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part 6  Environmental Management 

This  Part  establishes  Council’s  requirements for specific  aspects  of  planning,  development  or the 
environment, such as tree preservation and waste management. 

Part 7 Development Process Matters 

This  Part  informs  parties  involved  or  interested  in  the  Development  Application  and  consent 
process  of  Council’s  requirements  for  making  Development  Applications  and  the  notification  or 
exhibition of applications. 

Appendices 

The appendices to this DCP comprise: 

Appendices  that  deal  with  detailed  matters  associated  with  a  particular  section,  e.g.  on  waste 
management.  

Codes and best practice guidelines that have been adopted by Council and are referred to within 
the BDCP. 

8 

 
 
 
2 

Site and Environmental Planning 

2.1 

Burwood’s Planning Context 

The broad physical context of Burwood is provided by its location in the Cumberland Basin, on the 
southern  side  of  the  Parramatta  River. The majority  of  Burwood,  located to  the  north  of  Liverpool 
Road, drains towards the Parramatta River, while land to the south slopes toward the Cooks River.  

Most of Burwood comprises gently undulating land in low ridges and valleys, with elevations up to 
48m near Liverpool Road and Culdees Road, and down to 4m along the Cooks River in the south, 
and  Parramatta  Road  opposite  Concord  Oval  in  the  north.  The  topography  of  Burwood  provides 
significant urban views and vistas. 

Burwood’s urban geography is dictated by its close proximity to Sydney  City, and location astride 
the main early transport routes of Parramatta Road the Great Western Railway. These have meant 
a long history of settlement since the colonial era. Early semi-rural development and gentleman’s 
residences were succeeded in the early 20th Century by high quality suburban housing on medium 
sized allotments, supported by retail and service centres at key nodes and along the major roads. 

Widespread densification of Inner Sydney in the years post World War II saw growth in medium-rise 
housing in specific parts of Burwood, especially around the main rail transport nodes. The majority 
of  Burwood  however  has  remained  low  density  residential,  with  extensive  high  quality  areas  and 
numerous residential heritage items. There is little native bushland remaining in Burwood. 

The  Burwood  Town  Centre  (BTC)  emerged  early  as  a  natural  centre  of  the  Inner West for  public 
transport  access,  retail  and  commercial  services,  employment  and  in  recent  decades  for  medium 
and  high  density  housing.  In  successive  Metropolitan  Strategies,  the  BTC  has  been  flagged  for 
growth as the Inner West’s Major Centre (later termed a Strategic Centre).  

By  the  2016  Census,  Burwood’s  7.1  sq.  km  was  home  to  some  38,495  people.  The  population’s 
age  distribution  is  consistent  with  the  Sydney  Region  and  comprises  a  large  proportion  of 
professional and clerical workers. Burwood’s people share broad ethnic diversity, with the majority 
born overseas, and speaking a language other than English at home. Indicating the strength of the 
local economy, in 2017 Burwood also provided around 18,970 local jobs.  

Burwood’s  residents,  workers  and  visitors  enjoy  a  high  quality  urban  environment  with  many 
attractive  streetscapes  and  substantial  parks.  Burwood’s  main  environmental  challenges  are 
associated  with  its  location  in  the  Sydney,  including  traffic  congestion,  air  quality,  ecological 
sustainability, and the potential impacts of global warming.  

The  planning  context  for  the  Burwood  LGA  therefore  has  the  following  key  features  that  are 
supported by this DCP: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Housing availability and diversity. 

Excellent accessibility with good transport connections. 

Availability of major shopping facilities, business services and community facilities. 

High quality urban environment and public domains of residential and commercial areas. 

Heritage conservation and healthy communities. 

Economic development and local employment opportunities. 

Sustainable development and environmental protection. 

Protection of Burwood’s high quality residential areas. 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2 

General Site Analysis 

The  physical,  environmental  and  social  features  of  Burwood  and  its  development  history 
significantly affect the nature and scale of development. It is essential to respond to the local and 
broader contexts by identifying the defining elements of a development site and the character of the 
locality.  

As  a  first  step  in  preparing  for  a  development,  a  site  analysis  should  be  undertaken  at  an 
appropriate  scale.  This  should  identify  the  opportunities  and  constraints  of  the  site,  taking  into 
account  the  existing  planning  framework.  Together  these  should  create  a  platform  from  which  to 
develop a design. A site analysis demonstrates that the proposed development is the best possible 
solution  and  makes  the  best  contribution  to  its  surroundings.  It  also  shows  measures  to  mitigate 
identified adverse impacts. 

All  Development  Applications  should  prepare  and  submit  a  site  analysis,  except  Development 
Applications for the purposes of: 

Change of use 

Minor alterations and additions, and 

Swimming pools. 

The degree of detail required in a general site analysis will vary according to the nature, type and 
scale of the development and its planning context. The site analysis may include some or all of the 
elements in Table 1, and the level of detail required should be clarified with Council’s development 
assessment  officers.  The  analysis  may  comprise  plans,  sketches,  photographs  and  supporting 
written information.  

Table 1 – Site Analysis Details 

Identifying Information: 

Scale and north point. 

  Date. 
Property Details: 
  
Site dimensions, property boundaries and site area. 

Easements for drainage, services and rights of carriageway. 

Spot levels and contours. 

Landform and Vegetation: 
        
Soil type and depth. 

Differences in ground levels on site as well as between the site and adjoining properties. 

Existing vegetation on/or affecting the site, location, height, canopy cover and species types. 

Important views - from the site and from adjoining land. 

Identification of any contaminated soils on the site and extent of any known landfill. 

Landscape features - rock outcrops, embankments, retaining walls. 

Flood  liable  land,  existing  means  of  stormwater  drainage,  existing  stormwater  detention 
systems, flow paths, drainage easements and watercourses and channels etc. 

  
Sun and shade characteristics. 

Prevailing winds. 

Access: 
   
Vehicle and pedestrian access to and from the site. 

Public roads, laneways and pathways. 

On corner sites, the provision of a splay corner if required by Council. 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
   
Driveways, parking areas, loading bays on the site and within the vicinity of the site. 

Existing cycle facilities within the area. 

Public transport services. 

Existing Development: 
 
Existing  buildings  -  on  the  site  and  on  adjoining  land.  Show  location,  distance  from  the 
boundary, height and current use. Include elevations showing adjacent buildings. 

 
 
      
 
 
Existing neighbourhood character, including the pattern of development, built form, building 
materials and colours, fencing and garden styles. 

Direction and distances to local shops, schools, public transport, parks, community facilities 
and local activity centres. 

Overshadowing of and by adjoining buildings. 

Fences and walls location, height and materials. 

Swimming pools and slipways. 

Privacy - adjoining private open spaces, doors and windows. 

Street frontage features - poles, trees, kerbs, footpaths, crossings and street furniture. 

Noise,  odour  and  light  spillage  sources  (e.g.  main  roads,  railway  lines,  sports  fields,  air 
conditioning units, pool pumps and industrial areas). 

Heritage  and/or  archaeological  features  on  site  and  in  the  vicinity  of  the  site  include 
landscapes, buildings, conservation areas and special character areas. 

Existing advertising signs. 

Other parts of this DCP may have more detailed requirements for site analysis for specific locations 
or forms of development. 

2.3 

Views and Vistas 

Burwood’s  regional  location  and  gentle  topography  result  in  mainly  urban  and  local  views  and 
vistas. These are an important part of sense of place, amenity and character in the Burwood LGA. 
They  warrant  special  attention  for  inclusion  in  the  site  analysis  and  in  the  formulation  of 
development proposals.  

Views and vistas include cityscapes, streetscapes, open space and parks, significant and landmark 
buildings,  and  horizons  and  ridgelines.  From  higher  commercial  and  residential  buildings,  views 
and vistas can be more encompassing and over greater distances.  

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To preserve and enhance significant views and vistas within the Burwood LGA. 

To  encourage  view  sharing  through  complementary  siting  of  buildings,  responsive  design 
and appropriate landscaping. 

O3 

To  ensure  highly  visible  developments  are  located  and  designed  in  scale  with  Burwood’s 
cityscapes in the context of applicable planning controls. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

Development applications must identify existing views and vistas significant to the proposal, 
assess  the  impacts  of  the  development  and  demonstrate  how  significant  views  and  vistas 
are to be protected and enhanced. 

Development applications must demonstrate how building design, location and landscaping 
will encourage view sharing between properties. 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P3 

P4 

Assessment  of  views  and  vistas  must  take  account  of  other  planning  policies  and 
development standards in this DCP and BLEP 2012, e.g. building height, setbacks. 

Developments  must  have  particular  regard  to  high  quality  and  priority  views  and  vistas 
identified  in  other  parts  of  this  DCP,  e.g.  in  relation  to  heritage  items  and  heritage 
conservation areas. 

Advisory Note: 
For  certain  developments,  photo  montages  from  selected  locations  may  be  required  to  demonstrate  how  the  proposal 
affects views and vistas.  

2.4  

Streetscapes 

Streetscape represents the inter-relationship between buildings, landscape and open spaces in the 
street  scene.  The  quality  of  the  streetscape  impacts  on  local  amenity  and  identity.  Streetscape 
qualities include building form, scale, materials and colours that contribute to the overall character 
of the local area. 

Streetscapes  therefore  warrant  special  attention  for  inclusion  in  the  site  analysis  and  in  the 
formulation of development proposals. 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

O3 

O4 

To  ensure  new  development  responds  to,  reinforces  and  sensitively  relates  to  the  spatial 
characteristics of the existing urban environment. 

To  increase  the  legibility  of  streetscapes  and  urban  spaces  so  that  the  inter-relationship 
between development, landscape and open space is visually coherent and harmonious. 

To maximise opportunities for buildings to define the public domain. 

To encourage attractive street frontages and improve pedestrian amenity. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

P3 

Development  applications  must  identify  streetscape  characteristics,  assess  the  impacts  of 
the development and demonstrate how significant streetscape qualities are to be protected 
and enhanced. 

Development applications must demonstrate how building design, location and landscaping 
will encourage the protection and enhancements of streetscapes. 

Developments  must  have  particular  regard  to  high  quality  streetscapes  identified  in  other 
parts of this DCP, e.g. in relation to heritage items and conservation areas. 

Advisory Note:  
For  certain  developments,  photo  montages  from  selected  locations  may  be  required  to  demonstrate  how  the  proposal 
affects streetscapes. 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3  Development in Centres and Corridors 

3.1 

Application of this Section 

This section applies to Burwood’s centres and corridors, namely: 

Centre or Corridor 

Zoning Under BLEP 2012 

Burwood Town Centre and Burwood 
Road North 

Strathfield Town Centre 

B4 Mixed Use 

B4 Mixed Use 

Enfield Local Centre 

B2 Local Centre 

Croydon Park Local Centre 

B2 Local Centre 

Croydon Neighbourhood Centre and 
other small areas 

B1 Neighbourhood Centre 

Parramatta Road Corridor 

B6 Enterprise Corridor 

Where  a  type  of  development  covered  by  this  DCP  section  is  permitted  in  another  zone,  Council 
may apply the relevant provisions from this DCP section at its discretion. 

The aims of this section are: 

To reinforce and support the different identities, functions and character of the centres and corridor. 

To  ensure  development  achieves  the  stated  desired  future  character  of  each  of  the  centres  and 
corridor. 

To minimise the potential negative impacts of development on neighbouring low density residential 
properties. 

To encourage a safe and human scale environment at street level within centres and corridor. 

3.2 

General Building Design Controls in Centres and Corridors 

3.2.1 

 Building Design 

Objectives 

O1 

To ensure that new buildings:  

 
 
 
 
 
Represent architectural and urban design excellence. 

Provide cohesive and visually interesting building appearance. 

Respond to surrounding notable buildings and enhances the streetscape. 

Integrate roof design with the building character and enhances the skyline. 

Encourage  rooftop  gardens  and  planting  on  structures  that  enhance  the  quality  and 
amenity of open space. 

General Guidelines 

Provisions 

P1 

Architectural design excellence is to be achieved in the following ways:  
 
The  form  and  external  appearance  of  any  development  should  significantly  improve 
the quality and amenity of the public domain.  

 
Cohesive  design  and  visual  interest  should  be  provided  by  articulation,  modulation 
and fenestration as well as textures, materials and colours.  

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
The development should respond positively to its context, environment and function.   

P2 

New  facades  should  complement  the  predominant  scale,  proportion  and  rhythm  of  the 
existing streetscape.  

Example of streetscape showing the new high-density development integrated with the existing fine grain 
façade of the town centre/corridor (Source: City of Auckland). 

P3  Façade elements including roof form, materials, colours and awnings are to make a cohesive 

and visually interesting building appearance.  

P4  New  facades  are  to  respond  to  the  proportion,  texture  and  material  of  surrounding  notable 
buildings  including  heritage  or  locally  valued  buildings  within  the  immediate  surrounding 
context. Mimicking of heritage features is to be avoided.  

The building modulation and fenestration responds to the adjacent valued context. (Source: Google) 

P5  Extensions  and  additions  involving  heritage  elements  must  be  designed  to  complement  the 

style, form and proportions as well as materials and colours of heritage elements.  

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P6  Any blank walls are to be designed to have details and visual interest and be cohesive with 

the rest of the elevation through the use of materials, textures and colours.  

P7 

In infill developments, façade modulation/ articulation should reflect the key datum lines of the 
adjacent contributory developments.  

P8  New  developments  on  corner  sites  should  orient  to  both  street frontages.    Also  they  should 
accentuate  the  corner’s  unique  location  with  architectural  features  that  actively  engage  the 
public realm and create a visual presence at the corner, such as:  

   
Chamfered or rounded corners  
Different material and colours  
Recessed balconies or windows  

The corner element is to be treated differently to enhance the visual character of the public domain. (Source: 

Google) 

P9  Building  service  elements,  such  as  drainage  pipes,  grilles,  screens,  ventilation  louvres  and 

car park entry doors should be integrated into the overall facade design.  

P10  A simplified response to the required DCP height plane is encouraged.  

P11  The primary façade proportion should distinguish the podium, middle and top elements.  

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Base/Podium Levels 

P12  Ground  level  façades  are  to  have  modulation  every  5-6m  to  reflect  the  existing  ‘fine  grain’ 

storefront scale.  

P13  Podium  façade  articulation  above  the  ground  level  should  contribute  to  the  modulation  and 

rhythm of the ground level and reflect a human scale development.  

P14  Infill developments adjacent to small-scale heritage items and/or local valued building should 
respond  to  the  adjacent  façade  expressions/rhythm  and  datums  in  their  podium  façade 
design.  

P15  A  minimum  of  90%  of  the  front  façades  on  the  ground  level  are  to  be  activated  with 

storefronts and openings.  

P16  A minimum of 30% - 50% of side façades within podia are to be activated with windows and 
openings. This applies where a side façade is next to a heritage item, a pedestrian link or a 
laneway. 

P17  A minimum of 60% - 70% of the rear façade within podia is to include windows and openings. 
This applies where the rear façade is not built to the rear boundary, or where it is built to the 
rear boundary but has frontage to a laneway or a pedestrian link.  

P18  Main entrances are to be clearly visible from the public domain. Different materials or visually 

interesting modulations/rhythms are encouraged.  

A different modulation to highlight the main pedestrian entrance is encouraged. (Source: Auckland Design Manual) 
16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P19  Service/parking entrances are to have a minimum width, be integrated with the overall façade 
of the podium element and show quality materials around the mouth of the entrance up to 3m 
inwards or after the security gate.  

P20  Podium façades in corner sites should activate both streets. 

P21  In  transitional  areas  (town  centres  to  residential  precincts),  podium  elements  should  reflect 

the smaller modulation of the residential buildings in their façade design.  

Middle 

P22  Where  the  building  length  above  the  podium  levels  is  less  than  45  m  but  the  building  is 
attached to the adjacent building, a break every 40-45m is to be provided to avoid continuous 
walls of development.  

P23  Front and rear façades to include 60% - 70% windows and balconies to habitable rooms.  

P24  Side  façades  -  if  not  attached  to  the  adjacent  development  -  are  to  include  windows  and 
openings  within  at  least  30%  -  50%  of  the  façade  visible  from  the  public  domain  and  the 
surrounding habitable areas. Where separation distances are less than the guidelines in the 
ADG,  redirection  of  views  from  the  widows  and  openings  is  encouraged  to  avoid  adverse 
privacy impacts.  

P25  Blank  facades  attached  to  the  side  boundaries,  in  the  interim,  should  present  visually 

interesting elements through materials and colours. Plain/blank walls are prohibited.  

Modulation and articulation of blank walls to enhance the visual character of the building (Source: ADG, 4M). 
17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P26  New  development  should  avoid  having  blank  walls  on  the  northern  façade.  A  minimum  of 

70% of the northern façade is to include habitable windows and balconies.  

P27  Horizontal shading on the northern façades and vertical shading for eastern/western facades 

are encouraged to control heat gain to the internal areas.  

P28  Façade proportions should reflect the internal use of each building.  

P29  Variety of architectural modulation and rhythm is encouraged to enhance the visual interest of 
the façade. Vertical articulation is preferred to break the façade into smaller elements.  

P30  Openings are to be recessed at a minimum of 100mm to add depth to the façade.  

Recessed openings add depth to the overall façade. (Source: GMU Library) 

P31  Recessed balconies are preferable to provide privacy, protection and depth to the façade. 

P32  Sliding  louvered  panels  as  balcony  screening  are  encouraged  to  add  visual  privacy  and 

control glare and heat gain.  

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Top and Roof Gardens 

P33  Roof designs are to be integrated into the overall architectural character of the building and 

enhance the skyline of the centre or corridor.  

P34  Buildings are to have recognisable roof termination or capping distinguishable from the public 

domain.  

P35  The  use  of  different  façade  expression  including  articulation,  material,  parapet,  colour  and 

texture to differentiate the top level or roof is encouraged.  

P36  Roofs must respond to the orientation of the site. For example, the use of eaves and skillion 

roofs to facilitate to solar access. 

P37  The  visual  impact  of  service  elements  must  be  minimised  by  integrating  them  into  the  roof 
design  and  concealing  them  from  view.  These  elements  include  lift  over-runs,  service  plant 
rooms, vent stacks, telecommunication infrastructures, gutters and downpipes. 

P38  Development  must  be  designed  with  regard  to  how  it  is  observed  from  the  street  and  from 
adjacent development. Opportunities for sculptural expression to create a varied skyline must 
be considered. 

P39  Residents shall have access to rooftop and podium gardens wherever possible. At least 50% 

of the roof area shall be vegetated with grasses, shrubs and trees. 

P40  Planter boxes must be located at the perimeter of rooftop gardens to minimise overlooking of 

neighbouring dwellings. 

P41  Planting containers must allow sufficient depth and volume, growing medium and irrigation to 

support the mature size of plants. 

P42  All planting areas on structures must be designed by a suitably qualified engineer. 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2.2 

 Materials and Finishes  

Objectives 

O1 

To ensure that the use of superior quality external materials and finishes:  

  Contributes to architectural and urban design excellence. 
  Provides cohesive and visually interesting building appearance. 
  Responds to surrounding notable buildings and enhances the streetscape. 
  Provides longevity in external materials and finishes that are of superior quality. 

Provisions 

P1  The  existing  material,  texture  or  colours  of  the  surrounding  developments  are  to  be 

considered in the façade design of the new developments.  

P2  The new façade is to consider the texture and materials of their adjacent heritage buildings or 

contributory items.  

P3  Different  treatment  is  to  be  considered  for  the  base,  middle  and  top  in  the  overall  facade 

composition.  

Façade material and finishes clearly differentiate the base, middle and top of new buildings. (Source: Google) 

P4  Extensive expanses or overreliance on painted render is not permitted. Prominence is to be 

given to pre-coated or through-colour textured finishes in panels or similar formats. 

P5  Blank  walls/inactive  elevations  must  use  changes  in  materials,  patterns,  colours  or  other 
design  elements  to  provide  variation  and  architectural  interest.  This  includes  blank  walls/ 
inactive  elevations  that  may  be  exposed  to  view  pending  future  development  on  adjoining 
land. 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blank walls must be treated to provide variation and architectural interest. 

P6  Monotonous/bland  façade  expressions  are  to  be  avoided.  Building  materials  and  colours 
should be used to unify and provide visual interest to building exteriors. However, the number 
of materials and colours should be limited to maintain a visual simplicity and harmony.  

A combination of different materials and finishes provides a harmonious composition (Source: Google) 

P7  Changes in façade material or colour should be associated with a change in façade plane or 

separated by a pilaster, recess or change in scale.  

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary materials are associated with the majority of the elevations of the building. (Source: Auckland Design Manual) 

P8  Opening  frames  are  generally  to  be  recessive  colours  to  mitigate  any  visual  clutter  of  the 

overall façade.  

P9  An  appropriate  palette  of  colours should  be  used.  Stronger  primary  colours  can  be  used  as 
the  main  building  colour  when  used  in  combination  with  lighter  colours  to  highlight  building 
accents and create contrast. See sample colour boards below.  

P10  The  use  of  white  shall  only  be  permitted  on  trimming  with  bright  colours  to  highlight  items. 
Generally  neutral  tones  should  predominate  and  colours  selected  should  fall  into  the 
spectrum of the preferred community colour palette.  

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P11  Buildings are to avoid high reflectivity glass. No clear glass balustrades will be permitted. Use 

of translucent or opaque materials for balustrades is encouraged. 

P12  Materials  in  high  rise  building  forms  particularly  those  terminating  views  and  vistas  should 

help elevate the building’s iconic status.  

P5 

Low  maintenance  and  graffiti  resistant  materials  must  be  used  wherever  possible  on 
surfaces susceptible to graffiti. 

3.2.3   Lighting and signage 

Objectives 

O1 

To ensure that that building lighting and signage:  

  Contribute to architectural and urban design excellence. 

  Provide cohesive and visually interesting building appearance. 

Provisions 

P1  The size of the street address sign on the main facade is to be legible for pedestrians walking 

in the public domain.  

P2  Building names and street addresses are to have contrasting colours and/or material to 

enhance their legibility.  

P3  External lighting to enhance the details of facade and character of the surrounding context is 

to be incorporated. Use of indirect lighting is encouraged. 

P4 

In town centres and corridors, the external lighting is to illuminate the specific character of the 
building including the entrances, corner element or roof features.  

P5  Night-lighting of retail display windows in mixed-use buildings in town centres and corridors is 

encouraged.  

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P6 

In residential neighbourhoods, the main entrance and the pedestrian high traffic areas are to 
be illuminated to enhance wayfinding and safety.  

P7 

In both centres and corridors, and residential neighbourhoods, external lighting must be 
integrated to the overall streetscape character. 

P8  Compliance is required also with the other provisions of the BDCP concerning awnings and 

signage.  

3.2.4 

 Street-Front Activities and Building Access 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

O3 

O4 

To encourage pedestrian safety, visual interest and activity at street level. 

To promote street front activities, especially along streets of high pedestrian use. 

To create building entrances that are safe and contribute positively to the streetscape and 
building façade design. 

To  further  strengthen  activity  along  classified  roads  in  centres  such  as  Burwood  Road, 
Liverpool Road, Georges River Road and Parramatta Road.  
Provisions 

P1  Where,  as  a  result  of  the  nature  of  the  development,  there  are  specific  security 
requirements,  security  measures  must  form  an  integral  part  of  the  building  design.  Roller 
shutters are not permitted but retractable open security grilles may be considered. 

P2 

Ground floor level development must: 

  Promote quality non-residential activities in accordance with the zone. 

  Minimise the number of service doors. 

  Encourage visual interest on service doors with displays etc.  

  Provide  access  points  to  and  from  the  public  domain  at  not  more  than  20  metre 

intervals. 

  Provide at-grade access at entry points. 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Incorporate  visually  interesting  streetscape  frontages  at  ground  level  with  attractive 
entries,  clear  glazed  windows  and  window  displays,  artworks,  articulated  architecture 
and facade modulation. 

Separate and clearly identifiable entrances must be provided from the street for pedestrians 
and cars, and different uses (residential and non-residential). 

Building entrances must have a direct physical and visual connection with the street. 

Residential  component  of  any  development  must  have  a  clear  street  address  and  a 
separate entry. 

Outdoor  dining  is  generally  encouraged  on  the  footpath  of  commercially  active  street 
frontages, subject to compliance with Council’s Outdoor Eating Area Policy. 

All commercial components must have a clear street address. 

All  mail  box  and  postal  facilities  shall  be  incorporated  into  the  building  in  accordance  with 
the  requirements  of  Australia  Post.  Mail  boxes  shall  be  sited  and  designed  for  attractive 
visual appearance and function, as well as to complement the architecture and environs.  

P3 

P4 

P5 

P6 

P7 

P8  

P9     A locking device shall be installed to all mailboxes. 

P10   Where the residential building has a zero or 3 metre front setback, the mailboxes shall be 
integrated into the front wall such that residents collect mail from a secured internal foyer. 
Please refer to Figures 1(a) and 1 (b).  

P11   CCTV cameras shall be installed over any entrance points (including car parking entrance) 
for  residential  flat  buildings  and  major  developments.  The  CCTV  system  shall  provide  a 
quality image that can assist with the detection of crime and be used by the NSW Police in 
any  investigation  (preferably  a  quality  digital  system).  CCTV  system  footage  shall  be 
retained  for  a  period  of  no  less  than  fourteen  days  and  be  available  upon  request  by  the 
NSW Police when required.  

Figure 1(a): Example of Mailboxes Integrated into the Front Wall of a Residential Flat Building  

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1(b): Example of Mailboxes Accessible from a Secure Internal Foyer  

3.2.5 

 Subdivision and Car Parking Spaces 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To promote the orderly and transparent development of land. 

To  ensure  subdivided  car  parking  spaces  are  not  separated  from  the  uses  for  which  they 
were provided. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

An  application  for  Strata  Title  or  Community  Title  subdivision  of  land  may  include  a  car 
parking space only where the parking space is part of another lot. 

Consent must not be granted to Strata Title or Community Title subdivision which results in 
the subdivision of car parking alone. 

3.2.6 

 Site Isolation  

Overview 

Isolated  sites  in  centres  and  corridors  are  those  sites  whose  size  and  locations  could  potentially 
significantly  limit  development  as  a  result  of  not  being  included  in  an  adjoining  development 
proposal. Sites may not be defined as isolated if they have the future potential to amalgamate with 
an alternate adjoining property. 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To  encourage  site  consolidation  of  allotments  for  development  in  order  to  promote  the 
efficient use of land and to avoid the creation of isolated sites.  

To  encourage  the  development  of  existing  isolated  sites  in  a  manner  that  responds  to the 
site’s context and characteristics and that maintains a satisfactory level of amenity. 

26 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provisions 

P1 

The creation of isolated sites is discouraged.  

P2  Where a development may result in the creation of an isolated site or sites, the applicant is 
required to demonstrate that negotiations between the owners of the properties commenced 
at an early stage that was prior to the lodgement of the Development Application. Where no 
satisfactory  result  is  achieved,  the  Development  Application  must  include  evidence  of 
negotiations  with  the  owners  of  the  properties.  These  details  must  include  offers  to  such 
owners.  Such  offers  are  to  be  reasonable  and  are  to  be  based  on  at  least  one  recent 
independent  valuation  and  include  other  reasonable  expenses  likely  to  be  incurred  in  the 
sale of the process. 

P3  Where  a  development  may  result  in  the  creation  of  an  isolated  site  the  applicant  must 
demonstrate that orderly and economic use and development of the separate sites can be 
achieved  that  is  consistent  with  the  planning  controls.  Such  demonstration  is  achieved  by 
the  applicant  providing  an  envelope  for  that  site,  indicating  height,  setbacks,  resultant  site 
coverage and/or built area (building and basement), sufficient to understand the relationship 
between  the  development  and  that  site,  the  likely  impacts  the  development  will  have  on 
each  other,  such  as  solar  access,  visual  and  acoustic  privacy,  impacts  for  residential 
development and traffic impacts if that site is on a main road. 

P4 

The development of an isolated site is not to detract from the character of the streetscape 
and is to achieve a satisfactory level of amenity, including solar access, visual and acoustic 
privacy. 

3.2.7 

 Residential Flat Buildings and Shop Top Housing 

Objectives 

O1 

To clarify the application of DCP provisions to these forms of development. 

Provisions 

P1 

In the B4 Mixed Use zone, both residential flat buildings and shop top housing are permitted 
with consent. For the purposes of implementation of the BLEP 2012 in this zone, where the 
residential component of a mixed development comprises three of more dwellings, it will be 
regarded as a residential flat building, not shop top housing. In these cases there will be no 
restriction on ground floor uses. 

Where the residential component of a mixed development comprises one or two dwellings, it 
will be regarded as shop top housing. In this case the use of the ground floor is restricted to 
retail or business premises.  

In  the  B4  Mixed  Use  zone  development  comprising  residential  flat  buildings  or  shop  top 
housing will be subject to the same provisions of Part 3 of this DCP, together with SEPP 65 
and the Apartment Design Guide (ADG).  

For  any  shop  top  housing,  there  is  no  numerical  relationship  between  the  number  of 
dwellings and the ground floor retail or business premises.  

P2 

In the  B1  Neighbourhood  Centre,  B2  Local  Centre  and  B6  enterprise  Corridor  zones,  only 
shop  top  housing  is  permitted.  In  these  zones,  the  residential  component  of  a  mixed 
development  comprising  one  or  more  dwellings  is  regarded  as  shop  top  housing,  and  the 
use  of  the  ground  floor  is  restricted  to  retail  or  business  premises.  There  is  no  numerical 
relationship  between  the  number  of  dwellings  and  the  ground  floor  retail  or  business 
premises.  
In the B2 Local Centre zone, the provisions of Part 3 of this DCP applying to residential flat 
buildings will also apply to shop top housing, together with SEPP 65 and the ADG.  
27 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  B1  Neighbourhood  Centre  zone,  development  of  shop  top  housing  is  likely  to  be 
minor because of the development standards and heritage restrictions applying. In this zone 
shop  top  housing  development  will  be  assessed  on  its  merits  having  regard  to  the 
requirements of the BLEP 2012 and existing development in the neighbourhood centre. 

In the B6 Enterprise Corridor zone, the residential component of development is restricted to 
about  10%  of  potentially  available  floor  space  of  a  building.  In  this  zone  the  residential 
development will be assessed on its merits having regard to SEPP 65 and the ADG. 

3.2.8 

 Apartment Mix and Minimum Dwelling Sizes 

Objectives 

O1 

To provide housing choice to meet the socio-economic needs of the population. 

Provisions  

P1 

P2 

P3 

Residential  development  in  excess  of  20  dwellings  must  provide  a  mix  of  dwellings 
containing one, two or more bedrooms.  

All residential developments must provide the following minimum apartment sizes:  

 
Studio apartments - 40 square metres. 

  One bedroom apartments - 50 square metres. 

 
 
Two bedroom apartments - 70 square metres. 

Three or more bedroom apartments - 95 square metres. 

Calculation of the apartment size must be the net area and is exclusive of the apartment’s 
perimeter  walls,  balconies  and  excessive  internal  circulation  of  the  dwellings.  The  storage 
areas  required  to  be  provided  within  each  dwelling  by  Section  3.2.16  of  this  DCP  section 
may be included in the calculation of the net area. 

Advisory Note:  
These provisions also apply to serviced apartments. 

3.2.9 

 Minimum Site Area  

Objectives  

O1 

To ensure sites are capable of accommodating development.  

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

Any  development  outside  a  Centre  with  a  height  over  9m  is  generally  required  to  have  a 
minimum site area of 500 sqm. 

Council  will  only  consider  a  development  with  a  minimum  site  area  below  500  sqm  where 
the Council is satisfied that: 

 
 
 
The development demonstrates design excellence.  

The  development  provides  a  good  response  to  the  streetscape  and  surrounding 
development (in terms of both existing and future development).  

The development provides full compliance with parking requirements without the use 
of automated or mechanical car parking systems. 

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2.10 

 Building Depth  

Objectives  

O1 

To provide adequate amenity in terms of access to natural light and ventilation. 

Provisions 

P1 

For development including multi dwelling housing refer to the building amenity provisions of 
the  ADG  which  supplements  SEPP  65  –  Design  Quality  of  Residential  Apartment 
Development. 

3.2.11 

 Ceiling Height 

Objectives  

O1 

To provide adequate amenity.  

O2 

To allow for future mix of uses and contribute to flexibility of use. 

Provisions 

P1 

Development  must  provide  the  following  minimum  ceiling  heights.  Dimensions  are 
expressed from finished floor levels to finished ceiling levels: 

  Ground level of all development (commercial and residential): 3.3 metres.  

 
 
Non-residential floors above ground level: 3.0 metres. 

Residential floors above ground level: 2.7 metres for habitable rooms and 2.4 metres 
for non-habitable rooms. 

3.2.12 

 Natural Ventilation 

Objectives 

O1 

To provide adequate amenity.  

O2 

To  minimise  the  energy  consumption  of  development  through  reduced  reliance  on 
mechanical ventilation. 

Provisions 

P1 

For development including multi dwelling housing refer to the building amenity provisions of 
the  ADG  which  supplements  SEPP  65  -  Design  Quality  of  Residential  Apartment 
Development   

3.2.13   Daylight Access  

Objectives  

O1 

O2 

To orient development to optimise solar access.  

To minimise the energy consumption of air-conditioning of development. 

Provisions 

P1 

For development including multi dwelling housing refer to the building amenity provisions of 
the  ADG  which  supplements  SEPP  65  -  Design  Quality  of  Residential  Apartment 
Development. 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2.14   Visual and Acoustic Privacy 

Objectives 

O1 

To provide adequate amenity.  

Provisions 

P1 

Development  must  be  located  and  orientated  to  maximise  visual  privacy  between 
development on the site and adjacent development by: 

 
 
Providing adequate rear and side setbacks. 

Utilising  the  site  layout  to  increase  building  separation.  For  example,  orientation  of 
buildings  on  narrow  sites  to  the  front  and  rear  of  the  lot,  thereby  utilising  the  street 
width and rear garden depth to increase the apparent building separation distance. 

P2 

Detailed site and building design elements may be incorporated to increase privacy without 
compromising access to light and air. Design detailing may include: 

 
Solid or semi-solid balustrades to balconies. 

  Offset windows of dwellings. 

 
 
 
 
 
Recessed balconies and/or vertical fins. 

Louvres or screen panels to windows and/or balconies. 

Fencing. 

Vegetation as a screen between spaces. 

Pergolas or shading devices to limit overlooking. 

3.2.15 

 Private Open Space  

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To  provide  all  dwellings  in  centres  and  corridors with  secure  private  open  space,  either  in 
the form of a private courtyard or balcony. 

To  provide  usable  private  open  space  areas  which  relate  well  to  the  main  internal  living 
areas. 

O3 

To provide open space with soft landscaping. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

All dwellings must have direct access to one primary open space from the main living area. 

The  primary  open  space  must  be  dimensioned  to  promote  indoor/outdoor  living.  A  dining 
table and two chairs (small apartment, i.e. 1 bedroom) or four chairs (large apartment, i.e. 2 
or  more  bedrooms)  should  fit  on  the  primary  open  space.  The  following  minimum 
dimensions, clear of balustrades, must be achieved: 

  Minimum depth - 2 metres (up to one bedroom). 

  Minimum depth - 2.5 metres (two or more bedrooms). 

  Minimum area - 8 sq metres (one and two bedrooms). 

  Minimum area - 10 sq metres (three bedrooms or larger). 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P3 

Private open space must respond to site conditions including sun, noise, wind and privacy. 
Sun  screens,  pergolas,  shutters  and  openable  walls  are  to  be  used  to  increase  amenity 
where appropriate. 

P4 

Private open space must form an integral part of the development’s design. 

3.2.16 

 Lobbies and Internal Circulation – All Development  

Objectives 

O1 

02 

03 

To  provide  communal  spaces  which  contribute  to  the  overall  design,  experience  and 
performance of the development. 

To provide well designed and lit spaces for occupant movement and waiting. 

To  provide  inviting  communal  spaces  which  include  facilities  for  seating,  mail  boxes  and 
supervision personnel. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

P3 

P4 

P5 

Entry lobbies must be designed to provide facilities for seating, mail delivery and collection, 
and supervising personnel wherever possible. 

Lift lobbies must be naturally ventilated. Daylight is to enter all residential lift lobbies. 

Common  area  corridors  must  be  designed  to  facilitate  easy  movement  of  people  and 
furniture.  Corridors  must  incorporate  varied  surfaces,  textured  and  materials,  and  clearly 
identified apartment numbers. 

Common area corridors must be a minimum of 2 metres in width. 

The name and number of a development must be clearly displayed at the entry outside the 
development. Suitable illumination for after hours recognition must be provided. 

3.2.17   Storage for Apartments  

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To  provide  adequate  storage  for  everyday  household  items  within  easy  access  of  the 
apartment.  

To  provide  storage  for  equipment  including  those  associated  with  sporting,  leisure,  fitness 
and hobby activities. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

For  development  including  multi  dwelling  housing  refer  to  the  building  configuration 
provisions  of  the  ADG  which  supplements  SEPP  65  -  Design  Quality  of  Residential 
Apartment Development. 

At least 50% of the storage area must be provided within the dwelling and 25% accessible 
from active areas. 

P3  Where the remaining 50% of the storage is located in the basement of the development it 

must be linked to its associated dwelling through its relevant strata title. 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2.18   Safety and Security 

Objectives 

O1     To  ensure  development  is  safe  and  secure  for  occupant’s  visitors  and  other  users  at  all 

times. 

Provisions 

P1  

The  routes  between  a  development’s  entrance  and  its  dwellings  must  be  designed  to 
maximise  occupant  safety.  The  routes  from  car  parking  areas  to  the  lift  lobby  are 
particularly important in this regard. Clear sight lines and well-lit routes must be provided. 

P2   Development  must  comply  with  Council’s  Burwood  Community  Crime  Prevention  and 

Safety Plan. 

P3   Development  must  be  provided  with  clearly  defined  site  boundaries  to  strengthen  the 

distinction between public and private space. 

P4  

Facades at ground level must be activated by locating after hours uses so they are visible 
from the publicly accessible areas. 

P5 

Development access must be controlled by: 

 
 
 
 
 
Restricting access from balconies, roofs and windows of neighbouring development. 

Providing separate access from public and common areas. 

Providing separate access for residents in mixed-use developments. 

Providing an audio or video intercom system at the pedestrian or vehicular entrance or 
in the lobby for visitors to communicate with residents. 

Providing secure keyed or electronic access for residents. 

P6  Concealment opportunities must be minimised from development by: 

 
 
 
Eliminating blind or dark alcoves near lifts and stairwells. 

Providing clear sight lines and well lit routes throughout the development. 

Providing appropriate levels of illumination for all common areas. 

P7   Residential development must be oriented so that primary windows and private open space 

address the street and publicly accessible areas. 

P8   Where,  as  a  result  of  the  nature  of  the  development,  there  are  specific  security 
requirements,  security  measures must form  an  integral  part  of  the  building  design.  Roller 
shutters are not permitted but retractable open security grilles may be considered. 

3.2.19 

 Access and Mobility  

Objectives 

O1 

To  ensure  development is  designed  to facilitate access  by  the  whole  community  including 
those with mobility impairment. 

32 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provisions 

All Development 

P1 

P2 

P3 

P4 

P5 

The main entry of development must be designed and identified for use by persons with a 
mobility impairment.  

The  main  entry  must  be  accessible  from  the  street  footpath  in  accordance  with  Australian 
Standard (AS) 1428: Design for Access and Mobility. 

Safe and convenient access must be provided in all development, car parks and communal 
facilities. 

Compliance with AS 1428.1 is required with respect to access requirements on new building 
work. 

Tactile indicators must be provided on the ground immediately adjacent to the approach and 
departure sides of any changes in floor levels in the public domain which incorporate a step, 
ramp, stepped ramp or the like in accordance with AS 1428.4. 

Residential Component of Development 

P6 

P7 

P8 

P9 

At  least  10%  of  dwellings  in  a  development  must  be  provided  as  adaptable  housing  to 
Adaptable House Class A or B standard to cater for ageing in place and mobility impaired 
residents, in accordance with AS 4299: Adaptable Housing.  

At least one car parking space must be provided and allocated to each dwelling required to 
be  provided  as  accessible  or  adaptable  housing  under  this  Section  and  the  car  parking 
space  must  be  accessible  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  AS  1428.2  to  facilitate 
automatic vehicular wheelchair loading and unloading. 

For  development  providing  between  20  to  79  dwellings,  one  accessible  visitor  car  parking 
space must be provided on site must be accessible in accordance with the provisions of AS 
1428.2 to facilitate automatic vehicular wheelchair loading and unloading. 

For  development  providing  80  or  more  dwellings,  additional  accessible  visitor  car  parking 
spaces must be provided on-site which are accessible, as per P8 above, at the rate of one 
per each 60 dwellings or part thereof.  

3.2.20 

 Awnings and Associated Structures  

Overview 

Awnings  attached  to  buildings  and  free  standing  awning/shade  structures  including  semi-
permanent umbrellas provide weather protection for pedestrians and contribute to the creation of a 
comfortable  environment  for  people  to  walk,  shop  and  dine  in  the  public  domain.  Awnings  and 
associated structures should be designed to enhance the character of the streetscape. 

Under  the  BLEP  2012  road  reserves  are  generally  zoned  the  same  as  the  adjoining  land.  In  the 
Burwood  Town  Centre  and  its  extension  along  Burwood  Road  North  and  in  the  Strathfield  Town 
Centre most roads are zoned B4 Mixed Use. The installation of any structures that are not attached 
to  the  building  such  as  outdoor  dining  area,  free  standing  awning/shade  or  umbrella  constitutes 
development in the B4 zone that is permitted with development consent. 

For  new  developments,  proposed  outdoor  dining  area  and/or  awnings  and  free  standing 
awning/shade and shelter structures should be included in the overall Development Application for 
the development.  

33 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Where an outdoor dining area and/or an awning or a free standing shelter structure is proposed as 
an addition to existing development, a Development Application is required to be submitted. 

The following subsections provide location and design guidelines for applicants and also serve as 
criteria for assessment of Development Applications.  

3.2.20.1 Awning Style - Attached to Buildings 

Objectives 

O1 

To provide pedestrian amenity with continuous overhead weather protection.  

O2 

To provide a consistent streetscape to ensure visual continuity. 

Provisions 

P1  Awnings  must  be  provided  above  the  public  domain  (i.e.  footpath)  for  buildings  built  to  the 

street front boundary, where awnings are part of the streetscape character.  

P2  Where development has a set back from the street boundary, and there is formal pedestrian 
access from that street, provision of an awning over the access to the building is encouraged.  

P3  New  awnings  must  be  of  the  traditional  steel  box  design,  in  a  straight  form,  supported  from 
above,  or  cantilevered.  Glass  awnings  may  be  considered  where  these  do  not  adversely 
impact the streetscape consistency and visual continuity.  

P4  New  awnings  must  be  integrated  and  compatible  with  the  adjacent  awnings  that  are 

consistent with this DCP. 

P5  Change  in  height  of  the  awning  is  not  permitted  unless  it  steps  down  or  up  to  follow  the 

terrain/ level of the street. 

P6  Awning  length  must  extend  across  the  entire  street  front  and  connect  with  the  adjoining 

awnings, except above vehicle entry points or service entrances. 

Awning  forms  should  be  compatible  with  that  of  the  adjacent 
properties. 

Awnings  with  designs  that  detract  from  the  continuity  of  the 
streetscape are discouraged.  

34 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Awnings  are  to  step  down  to  follow  the  terrain/level  of  the 
street. 

Drastic  changes  in  height  that  break  the  continuity  of  the 
awning  alignment  with 
the  streetscape  are 
discouraged. 

the  rest  of 

3.2.20.2 Awning Dimensions - Attached to Buildings 

Objectives 

O1  To provide sufficient clearance and adequate shelter for pedestrians.  

O2  To provide a continuous and harmonious streetscape. 

O3  To define and mark buildings on street corners. 

O4  To afford visibility to shopfronts from the opposite footpath. 

Provisions 

P1  Awning height measured from the footpath to the underside of the awning must be a minimum 
of 3.2 metres and a maximum of 3.5 metres. If signs are incorporated under the awning, they 
must allow a minimum clearance of 2.6 metres above the footpath. 

P2  The height of the awning fascia must be between 0.4 metres and 0.6 metres. 

P3  Any change in the awning height to accommodate sloping streets must have a maximum step 

height of 0.6 metres. 

P4`  For footpaths that are wider than 3 metres, new awnings must be setback from the edge of 
the kerb by a minimum of 1.2 metres to avoid conflict with parked vehicles and street trees. 
For footpaths less than 3 metre wide, new awnings must be setback from the edge of the kerb 
by a minimum of 0.6 metres.  

P5  The  awnings for  corner buildings  must  be  splayed  have  a  consistent  length  and  design  and 
can  be  slightly  higher  from  the  footpath  to  define  the  corner.  The  maximum  awning  height 
between the footpath and the underside of the awning is 3.5 metres. 

P6  Awnings must continue around buildings located on street corners.  

35 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1(c): Awning Dimensions 

Continuous splayed awning around the corner 

Awnings should be continuous. 

3.2.20.3 Materials and Colours of Awnings - Attached to Buildings 

Objectives 

O1  To define and create a consistent edge of the awning. 

O2  To provide a consistent character underneath the awning. 

O3  To avoid visual clutter and to enhance the public domain. 

O4  To increase personal safety and security through the use of artificial lighting. 

Provisions 

P1  Awnings,  including  their  underside,  must  be  constructed  with  high  quality  and  low 

maintenance materials with simple detailing to reduce visual clutter. 

36 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P2  Under awning supporting structures, ducts, cables and wiring must be concealed from view. 

Lights should be integrated within the awning, e.g. LED down-lights. 

P3  Artificial lighting must be installed in awnings at no greater than 6 metre centres and enable 

face recognition. 

P4  Awnings  must  adopt  a  coordinated  colour  scheme  that  is  compatible  with  the  building. 

Multiple, bright, and rainbow colours are discouraged. 

P5  Awnings  must  be  regularly  maintained  to  ensure  ongoing  structural  adequacy  and  weather 

protection. 

Under  awning  supporting  structures,  wiring  and  lighting 
should  be  concealed  unless  they  are  consistent  with  the 
character of the building. 

Exposed  lights  are  not  encouraged  unless  they  are  fitted  and 
integrated within the fascia or consistent with the character of the 
building. 

Exposed  under  awning  supporting  structures  are  not 
encouraged  unless  they  are  consistent  with  the  character  of 
the building. 

Glass  awnings  should  demonstrate  streetscape  consistency 
and visual continuity with adjacent awnings.   

3.2.20.4 Awning Extensions 

Objectives 

O1  To provide additional overhead weather protection to outdoor dining areas. 

O2  To maintain a harmonious and consistent public domain with minimal visual clutter and high 

levels of visual connection between both sides of the footpath. 

Provisions 

P1  There are 3 types of awning extensions:  

    straight drop extensions,  
   
    permanent extensions. 

retractable extensions and  

37 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P2  Awning extensions must be positioned a minimum of 1 metre away from the centreline of any 

tree, parallel to the edge of the kerb. 

P3  Full  awning  extensions  that  drop  to  the  ground,  whether  they  are  made  of  transparent  or 
opaque materials, e.g. cafe blinds, and side screens or panels at the side edges of the awning 
extension are not permitted. 

P4  An  awning  extension  should  at  least  not  detract  from  and  preferably  improve  the  overall 

streetscape character and appearance. 

P5  Awnings  must  be  regularly  maintained  to  ensure  ongoing  structural  adequacy  and  weather 

protection. 

Straight Drop Extensions 

P5  These  are  awning  devices  attached  to  the  main  awning  for  the  premises  that  are  vertically 

retractable. They cannot be permanent fixtures. 

P6  A  straight  drop  extension  is  to  be  used  only  where  the  footpath  has  a  width  of  4  metres  or 

less.  

P7  This  type  of  extension must  be  attached  under  the fascia  of  the main awning  and  the fixing 
mechanisms must not be  visible from the street. The fascia of the main awning is to remain 
exposed. 

P8  A minimum clearance of 2.6 metres from the underside of the extension to the footpath below 
must  be  maintained.  The  outer  surface  of  the  extension  (including  any  structural  element) 
must maintain a 0.6 metres clearance from the kerb line. 

P9   The  type  of  extension  should  not  exceed  4  metres  in  horizontal  length  for  any  individual 

segment.  

P10  A  straight  drop  extension  may  use  a  narrow  structural  profile  on  both  sides  to  provide 

additional strength for different weather conditions. 

P11  The fabric for this type of extension must be made of light weight canvas or a similar material. 

P12  A coordinated colour scheme that is compatible with the main awning, with limited contrasting 
colours should be used for straight drop extensions. A selection from a palette of dark colours 
(dark  green,  indigo,  black)  is  encouraged.  Multiple,  bright,  and  rainbow  colours  are 
discouraged. 

P13  Display of any advertising text or signs on the straight drop extension is not supported. Any 

proposals of this nature are to be included in the development application. 

38 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1(d): Straight Drop Awning Extensions 

Figure 1(e): Straight Drop Awning Extensions 

39 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Retractable Awning Extensions (Horizontal) 

P14  These  are  awnings  attached  to  the  main  awning for the  premises  and are  retractable  in  the 
horizontal plane to provide flexibility of use and to deal with variable weather conditions. They 
are not permanent fixture. 

P15  A retractable awning extension is to be used only where the footpath has a width of 4 metres 

or more.  

P16  This  type  of  extension must  be  attached  under  the fascia  of  the main awning  and  the  fixing 
mechanisms must not be visible from the street. The fascia of the main awning is to remain 
exposed. 

P17  A minimum clearance of 2.6m from the underside of the extension to the footpath below must 

be maintained. 

P18  A maximum 200mm plastic/canvas drop at the outer edge of the retractable awning is allowed 

for extra weather protection. 

P19  The outer edge of the retractable awning is to have a minimum of 0.6 metres clearance from 

the edge of the kerb. 

P20  A  gutter  profile  must  be  installed  at  the  outer  edge  of  the  retractable  awning  to  direct  rain 

water to the street.  

P21  No vertical elements that attach the awning to the ground are permitted. 

P22  The structural elements on the underside of the retractable extension are to be the minimum 
required to properly support and operate the awning, and are to be comprised of high quality 
architectural elements. 

P23   This type of awning extension should not exceed more than 4 segments where it is parallel to 

the kerb. 

P24  A coordinated colour scheme that is compatible with the main awning, with limited contrasting 
colours  should  be  used for the  awning  extension.  A  selection from  a  palette  of  dark  colours 
(dark  green,  indigo,  black)  is  encouraged.  Multiple,  bright,  and  rainbow  colours  are 
discouraged. 

P25  Display  of  any  advertising  text  or  signs  on  the  retractable  extension  is  not  supported.  Any 

proposals of this nature are to be included in the development application. 

Figure 1(f): Retractable Awning Extensions 

40 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Permanent Awning Extensions 

P26  These  are  awnings  attached  to  the  main  awning  for  the  premises  as  permanent  structures 

that are not retractable.  

P27  A permanent awning extension is to be used only where the footpath has a width of 4 metres 

or more.  

P28  This type of extension must be attached under the fascia of the main awning and the fixing 
mechanisms must not be visible from the street. The fascia of the main awning is to remain 
exposed. 

P29  A minimum clearance of 2.6 metres from the underside of the extension to the footpath below 

must be maintained. 

P18  A  maximum  200mm  plastic/canvas  drop  at  the  outer  edge  of  the  permanent  awning  is 

allowed for extra weather protection. 

P19  The outer edge of the permanent awning is to have a minimum of 0.6 metres clearance from 

the edge of the kerb. 

P20  A  gutter  profile  must  be  installed  at  the  outer  edge  of  the  permanent  awning  to  direct  rain 

water to the street.  

P21  No vertical elements that attach the awning to the ground are permitted. 

P22  The structural elements on the underside of the extension are to have a narrow profile and be 
the minimum required to support the awning. The awning extension is to be comprised of high 
quality architectural elements. 

P23   This  type  of  extension  should  not  exceed  4  metres  in  horizontal  length  for  any  individual 

segment. 

P24  A coordinated colour scheme that is compatible with the main building, with limited contrasting 
colours  should  be  used for the  awning  extension.  A  selection from  a  palette  of  dark  colours 
(dark  green,  indigo,  black)  is  encouraged.  Multiple,  bright,  and  rainbow  colours  are 
discouraged. 

P25  Display  of  any  advertising  text  or  signs  on  the  permanent  extension  is  not  supported.  Any 

proposals of this nature are to be included in the development application. 

41 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: These photos provide examples of 
awnings that may be used as permanent 
awning extensions. 

Figure 1(g): Permanent Awning Extensions 

42 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Retractable  partial  drop  down  awning  extensions  that  are  fixed  to 
the underside of the fascia and in a coordinated colour scheme 

Non  retractable  and/or  permanent  supporting  structures 
holding the drop down awning extension is not allowed 

Canvas  materials  are  permitted  as  awning  extensions  and  they 
should be fixed to the underside of the awning. 

Awning extensions should not be fixed to the face of the 
awning fascia. 

Retractable awning extensions 

Permanent  awning  extension  structures  can  obstruct  visual 
connections between both sides of the street. 

Side screens or panels on the side of the awning extension and café blinds that drop to the ground are not permitted. 

43 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2.20.5 Permanent Free Standing Awnings/Shade and Shelter Structures 

Objectives 

O1  To provide additional overhead weather protection to outdoor dining areas. 

O2  To provide for variety in style and form of overhead weather protection including free standing 

shade structures and semi-permanent umbrellas. 

O3  To maintain a harmonious and consistent public domain with minimal visual clutter and high 

levels of visual connection between both sides of the footpath. 

Provisions 

P1  Free standing awnings/shade structures will be considered only in the sections of the footpath 

that have a minimum depth of 5 metres.  

P2  The structures may use any of the 4 styles indicated in the Figure 1(h). 

P3   Styles 1 & 2 should be used in corners or sections of a street without awnings. Styles 3 & 4 

should be mixed with street awnings for extra protection.  

P4  The  design  and  appearance  of  the  structures  are  to  be  based  on  minimum  structural 
elements  with  narrow  profiles  not  exceeding  120mm  and  use  of  high  quality  architectural 
features.  

P5  A  free  standing  awning/shade  structure  must  maintain  a  minimum  clearance  of  2.6  metres 

from the underside of the structure to the footpath below.  

P6  The  free  standing  awning  structure  (non-umbrella)  must  maintain  a  minimum  0.6  metres 
setback from the kerb line and a 0.3 metres clearance from any overhead main awning.  

P7  A free standing umbrella is to be located behind low metal posts set into the pavement that 

have a minimum setback from the kerb of 0.6 metres. 

P8  Canvas  or  other  cover  material  used  in  the  structures  is  to  select  from  a  palette  of  dark 

colours (dark green, indigo, black).  

P9  Display  of  any  advertising  text  or  signs  on  the  structure  is  not  supported.  Any  proposals  of 

this nature are to be included in the development application.  

P10  Side drops of plastic or other material to provide extra weather or shade protection whether 

retractable or not are not permitted for Styles 1 & 2.  

P11  For  Styles  3  &  4  a  side  drop  of  plastic  or  other  material  to  provide  extra  weather  or  shade 
protection  whether  retractable  or  not  may  be  included  provided  it  has  a  maximum  drop  of 
200mm.  

P12  For Styles 3 & 4 a gutter profile must be installed to direct rain water to the street. Suitable for 

deeper footpaths and higher awnings above 3.5m.  

P13  Heating or lighting fixtures should be attached directly to the structure’s frame. 

P14  The  structure  is  required  to  be  integrated  and  aligned  with  any  street  fences,  bollards, 
balustrades,  posts  and  safety  guards  existing  or  proposed  by  the  applicant  where  the 
structure is to be installed.   

44 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P15  The  vertical  posts  or  other  structural  elements  supporting  a  free  standing  awning/shade 
structure must be coordinated with existing or proposed street posts or balustrades to avoid 
adding clutter to the streetscape. 

P16  The location of a free standing awning/shade structure at a street corner or along a section of 
streets  should  at  least  not  detract  from  and  preferably  improve  the  overall  streetscape 
character and appearance.  

3.2.20.6 

Location of Awnings in Burwood Road 

Burwood  Road  from  Parramatta  Road  to Woodside  Avenue  provides  many  potential  locations  for 
outdoor  dining  areas  that  may  include  awning  extensions  or  free  standing  shade  and  shelter 
structures that give additional weather protection. 

This section of Burwood Road has many intersections with side streets and has different footpath 
widths and existing awning heights along its length, as well as different existing awning styles and 
streetscape characters. 

Objective 

O1  To  indicate  the  preferred  locations  for  the  different  types  of  awning  extensions  or  free 

standing shade structures along Burwood Road. 

Provisions 

P1  The figure on the next page provides the map indicating the preferred locations. 

P2  Specific intersections are identified as locations for use of retractable awnings to maintain the 

continuity of the streetscape. 

P3  The  majority  of  the  street  length  is  identified  for  more  than  one  possible  awning  extension 

type, to enhance the variety of the streetscape. 

P4  Straight drop and retractable awning extensions are identified for use in street sections with 

narrow footpaths (as specified above). 

P5  Sections  of street  with  wider footpaths  are  identified for  use  with free  standing  umbrellas  or 
shade  structures.  The  map  in  Figure  1(i)  also  indicates  the  preferred  locations  of  free 
standing shade structures Style 2, umbrellas with a central post (Style 1) or fixed free  

standing shade structures (Styles 3 and 4). 

Figure 1(h): Styles of Permanent Free Standing Awnings/Shade Structures 

45 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1(i): Appropriate Locations for Specific Awning Types 

Burwood Road Burwood, 
Parramatta Road to Victoria Street  

Burwood Road Burwood,  
Victoria Street to Woodside Avenue 

46 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
3.3 

Area Based Controls – Burwood Town Centre and Burwood Road North  

Figure 1(j): Burwood Town Centre and Burwood Road North Areas 

47 

 
 
 
 
Aims  

The aims for the BTC and the contiguous Burwood Road North area are: 

  To provide for a vibrant centre with a level of amenity that reflects its Major Centre status. 

  To provide for a built form that supports appropriate urban design outcomes 

  To  ensure  a  building  scale  that  complements  existing  heritage  items  and  human-scale 

streetscape environments.  

3.3.1 Burwood Town Centre 

Building Height Plane 

Overview 

The BLEP 2012 controls height through the maximum permissible building heights established in 
the  Height  of  Buildings  Map  for  the  whole  LGA,  and  through  the  application  in  addition  of  a 
Building Height Plane (BHP) in the BTC. This subsection indicates the objectives of the BHP and 
further explains how the BHP is determined and applied. 

Objectives 

O1 

To maintain the amenity of land outside and adjoining the BTC and provide such land with 
adequate solar access. 

O2 

To illustrate how the BHP controls are applied. 

Provisions 

P1  The height of buildings on land within the BTC is not to project above the BHP as identified 
in Clause 4.3A and on the map marked - “Building Height Plane Map in the BLEP 2012. 

Advisory Note: 
The  BTC  is  not  orientated  true  north  which  explains  the  difference  of  solar  angles  along  different  parts  of  the 
Town Centre boundary as illustrated in Figure 2. 

P2      For ease of reference the BHP particulars from the BLEP 2012 are set out in the map and 

table in Figure 2. 

P3    For  the  purposes  of  providing  additional  guidance,  Figures  2  (a),  (b),  (c),  (d)  and  (e) 
indicate  the  operation  of  the  BHP  in  Conder  Street  and  Wynne  Avenue,  Belmore  Street, 
Clarence Street and Shaftesbury Road. 

Advisory Note: 
The Building Height Plane established under the Building Height Plane Map in the BLEP 2012 cannot be varied 
under Clause 4.6 of the BLEP 2012. 

48 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: BTC Building Height Plane Map and Table 

49 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2(a): Building Height Plane Diagram Showing the Location of Section Plans 

50 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2(b): Building Height Plane Section A:A 

Figure 2(c): Building Height Plane Section B:B 

51 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2(d): Building Height Plane Section C: C 

Figure 2(e): Building Height Plane Section D: D 

52 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P4 

For  the  purpose  of  providing  additional  guidance,  a  BHP  is  to  be  calculated  in 
accordance with the following formula: 

H = V + (D x tan a) 

H is the height measured in metres of a point in a BHP. 

V  is  the  height,  specified  in  the  BHP  particulars  table  in  P3  for  the  relevant  BHP  and 
measured in metres above ground level, at the street alignment or property boundary. 

D  is  the  horizontal  distance,  from  the  point  in  the  BHP  to  the  BHP  line,  measured  in 
metres and being perpendicular to the BHP line, specified in the BHP particulars table 
in P3 for the relevant BHP. 

a  is  the  vertical  angle  in  degrees  specified  in  the  BHP  particulars  table  in  P3, 
corresponding to the distance D for the relevant BHP. 

The following diagrams illustrate how the formula applies: 

Figure 2(f): Building Height Plane Diagrams 

Advisory Note: 
The  BHP  formula  calculates  the  height  to  a  point  on  the  BHP  from  a  point  horizontal  with  ground  level  at  the 
street alignment. For sites with ground levels different to the street alignment ground level, the difference should 
be taken into account by the user to determine the height of a point in the BHP vertically above the ground. 

53 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.3.2 Burwood Town Centre Areas 

Overview 

The BTC is  divided into Areas known as  the Commercial Core, Middle  Ring,  Perimeter and 
Transition Areas. These are shown in Figure 3 - Burwood Town Centre Areas map. 

For  each of  the four  Areas,  this section provides more detailed controls that  aim to achieve 
the desired urban form in each area consistent with the development standards in the BLEP 
2012. 

Burwood Road is the main street in the BTC. It has a distinct role and current and future built 
form, and is subject to specific building controls. 

Figure 3: BTC Area Map Together with the Burwood Road North Area 

54 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial Core and Middle Ring Areas 

Overview 

The Commercial Core and Middle Ring Areas are the inner parts of the BTC. It is envisaged 
that  much  of  the  commercial  and  retail  development  will  be  concentrated  in  these  Areas. 
Residential development is also anticipated to the extent permitted under Clause 4.4A which 
imposes a maximum residential floor space ratio. 

Podium Height  

Objectives 

O1 

O2  

To develop human-scale street environments. 

To  facilitate  higher  density  development  while  maintaining  the  existing  character  of 
street development fronting Burwood Road. 

Provisions 

P1  

Development in the Commercial Core and  Middle Ring Areas built to the street front 
must not have a podium height greater than 15 metres. 

Burwood Road 

P2       Development along Burwood Road built to the street front must not be greater than 13 

metres in height. 

P3  

Street  front    development    along    Burwood    Road    must    enhance    the    existing 
streetscape and be of a similar scale, form, bulk, placement and character to adjoining 
and nearby street front development. 

Street Front Setbacks  

Objectives 

O1 

O2  

To develop and create a strong definition of streets and public spaces. 

To  ensure  that  the  built  form  assists  in  forming  the  character  of  the  public  urban 
space. 

O3 

To provide wider footpaths and improved pedestrian access at identified streets. 

Provisions 

P1  

P2  

Development must be built to the street front boundary except where a minimum of 3 
metre,  6  metre  or  8  metre  setback  is  required  as  indicated  in  Figure  4.  These 
measurements are taken from the street boundary after any land acquisition required 
by BLEP 2012 has been completed. 

Setback areas must be free of any projections or encroachments, except for approved 
awnings  (provided  in  accordance  with  Section  3.2.19  of  this  DCP)  and  at-  grade 
landscaping. 

P3  

All  ground  level  setbacks  are  to  be  finished  at-grade  with  Council’s  footpath  and 
finished with materials to match Council’s current public domain requirements. 

55 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Burwood Road 

P4 

P5 

Development on Burwood Road must be built to the street front boundary. 

All development on Burwood Road that is located on a corner site must be built to the 
street front boundary as set out in Figure 4. 

Figure 4: Commercial Core and Middle Ring Areas: Street front setbacks 

56 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary Setbacks 

Objectives 

O1 

To establish the spatial proportions and enhance the urban qualities of the street. 

Provisions 

P1   Where  development  in  the  Commercial  Core  and  Middle  Ring  Areas  exceed  15 
metres  in  height,  the  part  of  the  development  above  15  metres  must  be  set  back  a 
minimum of 6 metres from the street front boundary, unless otherwise specified in P3 
and Figure 6. Refer to Figures 5(a) and 5(b). 

P2  

Setback  areas  must  be  free  of  any  projections  or  encroachments,    except    for 
lightweight balconies on the front façade. 

Burwood Road 

P3      Where  development  along  Burwood  Road  exceeds  13  metres  in  height,  the  part  of 
the development above 13 metres must be set back a minimum of 8 metres from the 
street front boundary. Refer to Figure 5(a). 

Figure 5(a): Commercial Core and Middle Ring Areas: Typical Secondary Setbacks 

57 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5(b): Burwood Road: Burwood Road Secondary Setbacks – Section Diagram 

58 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6: Commercial Core and Middle Ring Areas: Secondary Setbacks 

59 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Side and Rear Setbacks 

Objectives 

01 

To  define  the  urban  form  of  development  in  the  Commercial  Core  and  Middle  Ring 
Areas. 

Provisions 

P1  

P2 

For  residential  development  refer  to  the  building  separation  setback  provisions  of  the 
RFDC which supplements SEPP 65 - Design Quality of Residential Flat Development. 

Other  street  front  development  up  to  15  metres  in  height  must  be  built  to  the  side 
boundary and may be built to the rear boundary. Refer to Figure 7. 

Figure 7: Commercial Core and Middle Ring Area: Typical Midblock Development Setbacks 

Building Separation/Frontage Overview 

Overview 

Building separation provides appropriate levels of amenity for the private and public domain. 

Objectives 

O1 

To  ensure  that  development  has  appropriate  massing  and  spacing  between  buildings 
and frontage to any building. 

60 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
O2 

O3 

To assist in achieving acceptable levels of visual and acoustic privacy. 

To ensure distant views and vistas are achieved. 

Provisions 

P1 

For  all  development  refer  to  the  building  separation  provisions  of  the  RFDC  which 
supplements SEPP 65 - Design Quality of Residential Flat Development. 

Advisory Note: 
The same rules apply to residential and non-residential development in terms of building separation. 

P2    The  building  separation  requirements  established  under  P1  must  be  shared  equally 
with  adjoining  development  across  a  boundary  (refer  to  Figure  8.  The  applicant  must 
demonstrate  that  daylight  access,  urban  form,  open  space  and  visual  and  acoustic 
privacy can be satisfactorily achieved. 

P3  

The  maximum  length  in  any  direction  of  any  part  of  a  building  parallel  to  the  street 
above 15 metres  in  height  is  45m (refer to  Figure 9). This portion  of  the building  must 
be suitably articulated to alleviate building mass and improve building appearance. 

Figure 8: Separation between Buildings across a Property Boundary 

61 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9: Separation between Buildings on the Same Site – Section Diagram 

Communal Open Space  

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

O3 

To provide communal passive and active recreational opportunities. 

To provide communal open space that facilitates soft landscaping. 

To ensure that communal open space is consolidated, configured and designed to be 
usable and attractive. 

Provisions 

Podium Areas 

P1 

P2 

Podium areas must be made accessible as communal open space. 

Landscaping must be  provided  in  communal  open  space.  A minimum  0.6  metre  soil 
depth must be provided over 50% of the area to support planting or soft landscaping. 

Roof Tops 

P3 

P4 

Accessible communal open space may be provided on roof tops of development. 

The design of roof top communal open space must also have regard to its visual and 
acoustic impact and effects of wind. 

P5  

For  residential  development  refer  to  the  communal  open  space  provisions  of  the 
RFDC which supplements SEPP 65 – Design Quality of Residential Flat Development. 

Advisory  Note:  Any  opportunity  for  rooftop  gardens  or  landscaping  is  encouraged  to  add  to  residential  and  visual 
amenity. Designs should encourage “greener” rooftops that incorporate planting, while minimising concrete and expanses 
of hard surfaces. Section 3.2.3 requires at least 50% of the rooftop area to be vegetated. 

62 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Perimeter and Transition Areas 

Overview 

The  Perimeter  and  Transition  Areas  are  located  around  the  boundary  of  the  BTC. 
Residential development is expected to predominate in these Areas as it is not restricted. 

Street Front Setbacks  

Objectives 

O1 

To improve the quality of the public domain. 

O2     To invigorate the street front to provide the opportunity for commercial development at 

ground level. 

O3  

To  develop  appropriate  street  edge  setbacks  for  development  in  the  Perimeter  and 
Transition Areas, which reflect the established setbacks throughout these Areas as well 
as have regard for the desired future character for the Areas. 

Provisions 

P1  

Development  must  be  built  in  accordance  with  the  street  front  setback  requirements 
shown  in  Figure  10.  Building  setbacks  from  the  street  front  are  taken  from  the  street 
boundary after any land acquisition required by BLEP 2012 has been completed. 

Burwood Road 

P2 

P3  

P4  

Development on Burwood Road must be built to the street front boundary. 

All development on Burwood Road that is located on a corner site must be built to the 
street as set out in Figure 10. 

Development  must  have  a  setback from  the  street front  boundary  on  the  east  side  of 
Conder Street extending from Railway Parade to Belmore Street that is consistent with 
Item 47 in Schedule 5 and the Heritage Map of BLEP 2012, being the former Burwood 
Council Office building (1887 building only). 

P5  

Development  must  have  the  setback  required  as  shown  in  Figure  10  for  all  other 
streets. 

Building  setbacks  of  0-6m  from  the  street  front  are  taken  from  the  street  front 
boundary after any land acquisition required by BLEP 2012 has been completed. 

P6  

Setback areas must be free of any projections or encroachments, except for approved 
awnings  (provided  in  accordance  with  Section  3.2.19  of  this  DCP)  and  at  grade 
landscaping. 

63 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10: Perimeter and Transition Areas: Street Front Setbacks 

64 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11: Perimeter and Transition Areas: Typical Street Front Setbacks 

Secondary Setbacks 

Objectives 

O1  

To  facilitate  higher  density  development  while  maintaining  the  existing  character  of 
street development fronting Burwood Road. 

Provisions 

Burwood Road 

P1       Development along Burwood Road built to the street front must not be greater than 13 
metres  in  height.  Where  development  exceeds  13  metres  in  height,  the  part  of  the 
development above 13 metres must be setback a minimum of 8m from the street front 
boundary  in  Burwood  Road,  and  a  minimum  of  6m  from  the  street  boundary  in  side 
streets (except for Railway Parade). Refer to Figure 12. 

P2  

Street front development along Burwood Road must enhance the existing streetscape 
and be of a similar scale, form, bulk, placement and character to adjoining and nearby 
street front development. 

65 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 12: Burwood Road: Secondary Setbacks Diagram 

66 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Side and Rear Setbacks 

Objectives 

O1 

To minimise the amenity impact of development on adjoining properties. 

Provisions 

P1  

For  residential  development  refer  to  the  side  and  rear  setbacks  provisions  of  the 
RFDC which supplements SEPP 65 – Design Quality of Residential Flat Development. 
Building Separation  

Objectives 

O1 

To ensure appropriate amenity of developments. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2  

For  all  development  refer  to  the  building  separation  provisions  of  the  RFDC  which 
supplements SEPP 65 - Design Quality of Residential Flat Development. 

The setbacks as set out in P1 must be shared equally with the adjoining development. 
The  applicant  must  demonstrate  that  daylight  access  urban  form,  open  space  and 
visual  and  acoustic  privacy  can  be  satisfactorily  achieved.  Where  agreement  cannot 
be  reached  between  the  property  owners,  the  separation  distance  should  be 
distributed equally between the two properties. 

Communal Open Space  

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

O3 

O4 

To provide communal passive and active recreational opportunities. 

To provide communal open space to facilitate soft landscaping wherever possible. 

To  ensure  that  communal  open  space  is  consolidated,  configured  and  designed  to 
be usable and attractive. 

To provide a pleasant outlook and contribute to privacy between buildings. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

P3  

P4 

P5 

The street front setback areas must be provided as communal open space, except 
for circumstances referred to in Section 3.8.2 Treatment of Street front Setbacks. 

Where  the  ground  floor  uses  are  commercial,  fencing  of  the  street  front  setback  is 
prohibited. 

Where ground floor  uses  are residential, the   street  front    setback    area    may    be 
secured,  however  the  setback  is  to  remain  a  communal  space  with  only  one 
perimeter fence, and must not to be further divided. 

Existing mature trees must be retained wherever possible. 

Where existing trees are removed, they must be replaced at a ratio of two new trees 
for each tree removed. 

67 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P6  

P7 

P8  

P9  

At  least  50%  of  the  street front  setback  areas  must  be  provided  as  planting  or  soft 
landscaping. 

Canopy trees must be provided at the rate of 1 per 30 sq metres of landscaped area 
provided within the street front setback area. 

Development  which  requires  a  minimum  6  metre  setback  from    the    street    front 
boundary, in a landscaped front setting, are to provide deep soil  zones and provide 
trees planted as selected from Council’s Street Tree Management Strategy (STMS). 

Development  which  requires  a  setback  from  the  street  front  boundary,  in    a 
landscaped  front  setting,  that  is  less  than  6  metres,  are  to  plant  trees  from  the 
following list: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Callistemon viminalis ‘Hannah Ray’. 

Callistemon ‘Kings Park Special’. 

Callistemon citrinus. 

Buckinghamia celsissima. 

Bauhinia variegate. 

Albizia julibrissin. 

Backhousia citriodora. 

Lagerstroemia indica. 

Leptospermum petersonii. 

Gordonia axillaris. 

Melaleuca ‘Revolution Green’. 

Tristaniopsis laurina. 

Photinia x fraseri. 

Tibouchina grandulosa ‘Alstonville’. 

Burwood Road 

P10 

P11 

P12  

Podium areas must be made accessible as communal open space. 

Accessible communal open space may be provided on roof tops of development 

The design of roof top communal open space must also have regard to its visual and 
acoustic impact and the effects of wind. 

Advisory  Note:  Any  opportunity  for  rooftop  gardens  or  landscaping  is  encouraged  to  add  to  residential  and  visual 
amenity. Designs should encourage “greener” rooftops that incorporate planting, while minimising concrete and expanses 
of hard surfaces. Section 3.2.3 requires at least 50% of the rooftop area to be vegetated. 

68 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.3.3 Area Based Controls – Burwood Road North 

Overview 

This  section  applies  to  the  Burwood  Road  North  area  shown  on  the  map  in  Figure  1.  This 
area is expected to develop with a mix of land uses including commercial fronting Burwood 
Road  and  residential  accommodation.  It  will  have  a  similar  character  to  other  areas  of  the 
BTC with Burwood Road frontage and where Perimeter Area development standards apply. 

Street Front Setbacks  

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To improve the quality of the public domain.  

To invigorate the street front to provide the opportunity for commercial development 
at ground level. 

Provisions 

P1 

All development must be built to the street front boundary of Burwood Road and any 
side street (Figure 12(a)). 

Figure 

12(a): Burwood Road North: Street Front Setback 

69 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary Setbacks  

Objectives 

O1 

To  facilitate  higher  density  development  while  maintaining  the  existing  character  of 
street development fronting Burwood Road. 

Provisions 

Burwood Road 

P1 

P2 

P3 

Development along Burwood Road built to the street front must not be greater than 
13 metres in height. Where development exceeds 13 metres in height, the part of the 
development  above  13  metres  must  be  setback  a  minimum  of  8m  from  the  street 
front boundary in Burwood Road, and a minimum of 6m from the street boundary in 
side streets (Figure 12(b)). 

front  development  along  Burwood  Road  must  enhance 

Street 
the  existing 
streetscape and be of a similar scale, form, bulk, placement and character to street 
front development in Burwood Road. 

Setback  areas  must  be  free  of  any  projections  or  encroachments,  except  for 
lightweight balconies on the front facade.   

Figure 12(b): Burwood Road North: Secondary, Side and Rear Setbacks 

70 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Side and Rear Setbacks 

Objectives 

O1 

To minimise the amenity impact of development on adjoining properties in residential 
zones to the east and west.  

Provisions 

P1 

P2  

Buildings at the rear of properties fronting Burwood Road may be built to the street 
front of Riley Lane or Webbs Lane to a maximum height of 13 metres. Any part of a 
building  above  13  metres  is  to  be  setback  a  minimum  of  3  metres  from  Riley  Lane 
and 4 metres from Webbs Lane (Figure 12(b)).  

All development is required to have regard to the side and rear setbacks provisions of 
the  ADG  which  supplements  SEPP  65  –  Design  Quality  of  Residential  Apartment 
Development. 

P3 

Setback areas must be free of any projections or encroachments, except for at-grade 
landscaping.  

Other Provisions 

In  the  Burwood  Road  North  area  the  requirements  for  building  separation  and  communal 
open  space  are  the  same  as  those  applying  to  the  Perimeter  and  Transition  Areas  of  the 
BTC. 

71 

 
 
 
 
 
 
3.4 

Area Based Controls – Strathfield Town Centre 

Figure 13: Area of Strathfield Town Centre in Burwood LGA 

72 

 
 
 
3.4.1  Overview 

Strathfield Town Centre (STC) has developed in close proximity to and mostly to the south of 
the Strathfield Railway Station. The Centre is divided by the railway line and the north-south 
boundary  of  the  LGAs  of  Burwood  and  Strathfield.  The  section  of  the  STC  within  the 
Burwood LGA is outlined in Figure 13. Historically it has served a perimeter role in the whole 
Centre.  

The BLEP 2012 substantially enlarges the STC in the Burwood LGA under a B4 Mixed Use 
zone. The Strathfield Sports Club is a substantial land use that functions within the enlarged 
STC area.  

3.4.2  Desired Future Character 

The aims for the STC are: 
To encourage vibrancy and a level of amenity reflecting the area’s Town Centre status. 

To provide for a built form that supports appropriate urban design outcomes. 

To encourage a human-scale and active street level environment.  

The B4 Mixed Use zone and the applicable development standards for the STC will facilitate 
evolution  towards  a  higher  density  residential  precinct  that  takes  advantage  of  its  location 
close to the rail station and bus hub. On land closer to The Boulevarde and the rail station, 
the  maximum  residential  floor  space  ratio  control  is  likely  to  support  substantial  growth  in 
commercial floor space for services activities and local employment. Further to the east, land 
may  be  developed  fully  for  residential  purposes  or  include  some  commercial  floor  space, 
depending  on  developers’  assessment  of  market  demand.  Setback  requirements  and 
maximum podium heights will aim to encourage a human-scale environment at street level in 
the area closer to the rail station, while larger landscaped setbacks are required on land in 
the eastern part of the Centre.  

3.4.3  Specific Controls 

Street Front Setbacks 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

O3 

O4 

To create a strong definition of streets and public spaces. 

To ensure that the built form assists in establishing the character of the public urban 
space. 

To  improve  the  quality  of  the  public  domain  and  its  consistency  with  existing  street 
front development.  

To invigorate the street front by facilitating commercial development at ground level. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

P3 

Development must comply with the street front setback required as shown in Figure 
14. 

All  ground  level  setbacks  are  to  be  finished  at-grade  with  the  Council  footpath  and 
with materials to match Council’s current public domain requirements.  

Development  at  ground  level  must  have  an  active  street  frontage  (entrances,  shop 
front, glazing)  at  the  same  general  level  as  the  footpath,  and  be  accessible  directly 
from the street. 

73 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P4 

The setback area must be free of projections or encroachments, except for approved 
awnings and at-grade landscaping.   

Podium Height 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To develop a human-scale and active street environment. 

To  facilitate  higher  density  development  while  maintaining  the  existing  character  of 
street development.  

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

Development  with  a  0m street front setback  as  required  in  Section  3.4.3.1  P1  must 
not have a podium height greater than 11 metres (refer to Figure 15). 

Development built to the street front must enhance the existing streetscape and be of 
a  similar  scale,  form,  bulk,  placement  and  character  to  adjoining  and  nearby  street 
front development.  

P3 

Buildings on corner sites are to be articulated to address each street frontage and are 
to define prominent corners 

Secondary Setbacks  

Objectives 

O1 

To establish spatial proportions that enhance the urban qualities of the street. 

Provisions 

P1  Where development exceeds 11 metres in height, the part of the development above 
11  metres must  be  set back  a  minimum  of  6  metres from the  street front  boundary 
(refer Figures 15 and 16). 

P2 

Setback  areas  must  be  free  of  any  projections  or  encroachments,  except  for 
lightweight balconies on the front façade.    

74 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 14: Street Front Setbacks in Strathfield Town Centre 

75 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 15: Height Limits and Setback Requirement Where 0m Street Front Setback Applies.  

Figure 16: Height Limits and Setback Requirement Where 3m Minimum Street Front Setback 
Applies.  

76 

 
 
 
 
 
Side and Rear Setbacks  

Objectives 

01 

O2 

O3 

To define the urban form of development. 

To minimise the amenity impact of development on adjoining properties. 

To allow deep soil planting. 

Provisions  

P1 

P2 

For residential development refer to the building separation setback provisions of the 
ADG  which  supplements  SEPP  65  -  Design  Quality  of  Residential  Apartment 
Development. 

Non-residential  development  up  to  11  metres  in  height  must  be  built  to  the  side 
boundary  and  may  be  built  to  the  rear  boundary,  whether  or  not  there  is  a  rear 
laneway. 

P3 

Setback areas must be free of any projections or encroachments, except for at-grade 
landscaping.  

Building Separation/Frontage 

Overview 

Building separation aims to improve the levels of amenity for the private and public domain. 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To  ensure  that  development  has  appropriate  spacing  between  buildings  and  that 
limits are applied to the massing of buildings and the lengths of continuous facades. 

To assist in achieving acceptable levels of visual and acoustic privacy. 

Provisions 

P1 

For  all  development  refer  to  the  building  separation  provisions  of  the  ADG  which 
supplements SEPP 65 - Design Quality of Residential Apartment Development. 

Advisory Note:  
The same rules apply to residential and non-residential development in terms of building separation and frontage. 

P2 

P3 

The  building  separation requirements  established  under  P1 must  be shared  equally 
with adjoining development across a boundary (Refer Figure 8). The applicant must 
demonstrate  that  daylight  access,  urban  form,  open  space  and  visual  and  acoustic 
privacy can be satisfactorily achieved. 

The maximum length in any direction of any part of a building more or less parallel to 
the  street  above  11  metres  in  height  is  45m  (refer  to  Figure  9).  This  portion  of  the 
building  façade  must  be  suitably  articulated  to  alleviate  building  mass  and  improve 
building appearance. 

77 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Communal Open Space  

Objectives  

O1 

O2 

O3 

O4 

To provide communal passive and active recreational opportunities.  

To provide communal open spaces that facilitate soft landscaping wherever possible.  

To ensure that communal open space is consolidated, configured and designed to be 
usable and attractive, and is integrated into the streetscape where appropriate. 

To provide a pleasant outlook and contribute to privacy between buildings.  

Provisions 

P1 

The street front setback areas of developments must be provided as communal open 
space, except where a 0m street front setback is required (Figure 14)  

P2  Where  a  setback  is  provided  and  the  ground  floor  uses  are  commercial,  fencing  of 
the street front setback is prohibited, and the setback areas must be integrated within 
the streetscape. 

P3  Where  ground  floor  uses  are  residential,  the  street  front  setback  area  may  be 
secured  with  a  single  perimeter  fence.  However  the  setback  area  is  to  remain  as 
communal space for the development and must not to be further divided or allocated 
to a strata unit. 

P4  Where  a  setback  is  provided,  existing  mature  trees  must  be  retained  wherever 

possible. 

P5  Where existing trees are removed, they must be replaced at a ratio of 2 new trees for 

each tree removed. 

P6 

P7 

P8 

At  least  50%  of  the  street  front  setback  areas  must  be  provided  as  planting  or  soft 
landscaping. 

Canopy trees must be provided at the rate of 1 per 30 sq metres of landscaped area 
provided within the street front setback area. 

Development  which  requires  a  setback  from  the  street  front  boundary,  in  a 
landscaped  front  setting,  that  is  less  than  6  metres,  are  to  plant  trees  from  the 
following list:  

              
Callistemon viminalis ‘Hannah Ray’  
Callistemon ‘Kings Park Special’ 
Callistemon citrinus 
Buckinghamia celsissima 
Bauhinia variegate 
Albizia julibrissin 
Backhousia citriodora 
Lagerstroemia indica 
Leptospermum petersonii 
Gordonia axillaris 
Melaleuca ‘Revolution Green’ 
Tristaniopsis laurina 
Photinia x fraseri 
Tibouchina grandulosa ‘Alstonville’ 

78 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P9 

Development  that  provides  a  front  set  back  area  greater  than  6  metres  from  the 
street  front  boundary  and  a  rear  setback  of  4m  is  to  include  deep  soil  zones  and 
provide  trees  planted  as  selected  from  Council’s  Street  Tree  Management  Strategy 
(STMS). 

Rooftops  

P1 

P2 

P3 

Accessible communal open space may be provided on rooftops of development.  

The  design  of  rooftop  communal  open  space  must  have  regard  to  its  visual  and 
acoustic impact and effects of wind, with suitable screening being provided 

For residential development refer to the communal open space provisions of the ADG 
which  supplements  SEPP  65  –  Design  Quality  of  Residential  Apartment 
Development. 

Advisory Note:  
Any  opportunity  for  rooftop  gardens  or  landscaping  is  encouraged  to  add  to  residential  and  visual  amenity. 
Designs should encourage “greener” rooftops that incorporate planting, while minimising concrete and expanses 
of hard surfaces. Section 3.2.3 requires at least 50% of the rooftop area to be vegetated. 

79 

 
 
 
 
 
 
3.5  Area Based Controls – Local and Neighbourhood Centres 

Aims  

The aims of this DCP section are: 

To  support  and  maintain  the  important  role  that  local  centres  play  in  providing  retail  and 
other services to the local community. 

To  support  economic  sustainability  of  the  shops  and  businesses  serving  the  local 
community, in particular the daily shopping needs of residents. 

To provide for residential development in conjunction with shops and permitted commercial 
uses. 

To help maintain and enhance the social character and liveability of the centres.  

Local and Neighbourhood Centres 

3.5.1 Croydon Park Local Centre 

Overview  

The Croydon Park Local Centre (Figure 17) is characterised by retail and commercial uses 
within mostly traditional linear premises along Georges River Road between Brighton Street 
and Beaufort Street (approximately two blocks), divided by the public school that also fronts 
the  main  road.  The  mostly  older  terrace  style  premises  are  unified  by  the  suspended 
awnings  and  the  repetition  of  parapets  and  panel  windows.  The  newer  buildings  generally 
are of a consistent scale.  

Desired Future Character 

The B2 Local Centre zone will continue and reinforce the existing character and role of the 
area.  The  applicable  development  standards  will  increase  the  development  capacity  while 
the  maximum  Residential  FSR  control  will  limit  residential  floor  space  within  shop  top 
housing to about 80% of that potentially available.   

In  this  context,  redevelopment  within  the  Croydon  Park  Local  Centre  is  likely  to  comprise 
infill  floor  space  or  new  construction  that  optimises  provision  of  shop  top  housing  while 
ground  floors  of  buildings  will  retain  permitted  commercial  activities  serving  a  local  market 
but with some sub-regional functions. 

Physically the ground floor uses and residents above will provide an active street character 
while the retention of continuous awnings and a maximum podium height of 9m will reinforce 
the  pedestrian  scale  of  the  built  form.  A  transition  in  building  height  and  scale  at  the  rear 
(north)  of  sites  will  minimise  overshadowing  and  amenity  issues  for  the  adjoining  lower 
density residential dwellings.  

80 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 17: Croydon Park Local Centre 

3.5.2 Enfield Local Centre 

Overview 

Enfield Local Centre (Figure 18) comprises the retail and commercial activities located along 
Liverpool  Road  from  Burwood  Road  in  the  east  and  continuing  onto  Coronation  Parade  in 
the west.  

Near the intersection of Liverpool Road and Coronation Parade/The Boulevarde the centre 
comprises  a  mixture  of traditional  linear  shops  and  newer  buildings  of  a similar  height  and 
style. Around the intersection of Liverpool Road and Burwood Road the buildings include a 
mixture of traditional linear shops, older style residential flat buildings and newer commercial 
buildings as well as the cultural landmarks of the Royal Sheaf Hotel and the heritage listed 
St Joseph’s Church. 

81 

 
 
 
 
 
  
Desired Future Character  

Figure 18: Enfield Local Centre 

The  B2  Local  Centre  zone  and  applicable  developments  standards  will  increase  the  floor 
space  capacity  overall  while  the  maximum  Residential  FSR  control  will  limit  the  residential 
floor  space  within  shop  top  housing  to  about  88%  of  that  potentially  available  on  a 
development site.   

In this context, redevelopment within the three areas that make up the Enfield Local Centre 
is  likely  to  comprise  new  infill  floor  space  or  new  construction  that  optimises  provision  of 
shop top housing where residents can take advantage of good public transport access and 
local services.   

The  land  on  the  northern  side  of  Liverpool  Road  between  Burwood  Road  and  Quandong 
Avenue that includes the Royal Sheaf Hotel site, is subject to lower development standards 
of 11m maximum building height and 1.5:1 FSR, in recognition of the historical development 
controls  and  the  acknowledged  heritage  quality  of  the  Hotel  building  and  the  Conservation 
Areas to the north and east.   

82 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Controls for Enfield and Croydon Park Local Centres 

Street Front Setbacks 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

O3 

To create a strong definition of streets and public spaces. 

To ensure that the built form assists in establishing the character of the public urban 
space. 

To  improve  the  quality  of  the  public  domain  and  its  consistency  with  existing  street 
front development.  

O4 

To invigorate the street front by facilitating commercial development at ground level. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

P3 

P4 

P5 

Development must be built to the street front boundary. 

All  development  located  on  a  corner  site  must  be  built  to  the  street  front  boundary 
except the area required for any rear setback.  

All  ground  level  setbacks  are  to  be  finished  at-grade  with  the  Council  footpath  and 
finished  with 
to  match  Council’s  current  public  domain 
requirements.  

footpath  materials 

Development  at  ground  level  must  have  an  active  street  frontage  (entrances,  shop 
front, glazing)  at  the  same  general  level  as  the  footpath,  and  be  accessible  directly 
from the street. 

The  front  setback  area  must  be  free  of  projections  or  encroachments,  except  for 
approved awnings and at-grade landscaping.   

Podium Height 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To develop a human-scale and active street environment. 

To  facilitate  higher  density  development  while  maintaining  the  existing  character  of 
street  

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

P3 

Development  built  to  the  street  along  Georges  River  Road,  Coronation  Parade, 
Liverpool Road and Burwood Road must not have a podium height greater than 9m. 

Street front development must enhance the existing streetscape and be of a similar 
scale,  form,  bulk,  placement  and  character  to  adjoining  and  nearby  street  front 
development.  

Buildings on corner sites are to be articulated to address each street frontage and are 
to define prominent corners. 

83 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary Setbacks  

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To establish the spatial proportions and enhance the urban qualities of the street. 

To  facilitate  higher  density  development  while  maintaining  the  existing  character  of 
street development. 

Provisions 

P1  Where  development  exceeds  9m  in  height,  the  part  of  the  development  above  9m 

must be set back a minimum of 3m from the street front boundary. 

P2 

Setback  areas  must  be  free  of  any  projections  or  encroachments,  except  for 
lightweight balconies on the front façade.   

Advisory Note:  
Figure 19 shows street front and secondary setbacks and podium heights in the Croydon Park and Enfield Local 
Centres. 

Figure 19: Setbacks and Height Limits in the Enfield and Croydon Park Local Centres 

Side and Rear Setbacks  

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To define the urban form of development. 

To minimise the amenity impact of development on adjoining properties.  

84 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provisions  

P1 

P2 

P3 

For the residential component of development (shop top housing) refer to the building 
separation  setback  provisions  of  the  ADG  which  supplements  SEPP  65  -  Design 
Quality of Residential Apartment Development. 

Other development up to 9m in height must be built to the side boundary and setback 
5m from a laneway or rear boundary with a lot zoned Residential.  

lot  adjoins  a  Residential  zone  containing  residential 
In  addition,  where  a 
development,  buildings  are  not  to  exceed  a  45  degree  height  plane  projected  over 
the  site  and  commencing  1.8m  above  the  rear  or  side  boundary,  or  from  the 
boundary  of  a  laneway  (where  such  exists)  and  an  adjoining  Residential  zone 
containing residential development.  

P4  Where a new laneway is created, it can be used as part of the rear or side setback 

and for the application of P3.  

P5 

Side and/or rear setbacks must be free of any projections or encroachments except 
for at-grade landscaping. 

Building Separation/Frontage 

Objectives 

O1 

To ensure that development has appropriate spacing between buildings and frontage 
to any building. 

O2 

To assist in achieving acceptable levels of visual and acoustic privacy. 

Provisions 

P1 

For  all  development  refer  to  the  building  separation  provisions  of  the  ADG  which 
supplements SEPP 65 - Design Quality of Residential Apartment Development. 

Advisory Note:  
The  same  rules  apply  to  residential  and  non-residential  developments  in  terms  of  frontage  and  building 
separation. 

P2 

P3 

The  building  separation requirements  established  under  P1 must  be shared  equally 
with adjoining development across a boundary (refer to Figure 8). The applicant must 
demonstrate  that  daylight  access,  urban  form,  open  space  and  visual  and  acoustic 
privacy can be satisfactorily achieved. 

The  maximum  length  in  any  direction  of  any  part  of  a  building  parallel  to  the  street 
above 9m in height is 30m. This portion of the building must be suitably articulated to 
alleviate building mass and improve building appearance. 

Communal Open Space 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

O3 

To provide communal passive and active recreational opportunities. 

To provide communal open space to facilitate soft landscaping wherever possible. 

To ensure that communal open space is consolidated, configured and designed to be 
usable and attractive. 

85 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
O4 

To provide a pleasant outlook and contribute to privacy between buildings. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

P3 

Accessible communal open space may be provided on rooftops of development 

The  design  of  rooftop  communal  open  space  must  have  regard  to  its  visual  and 
acoustic impact and the effects of wind, with suitable screening being provided  

For residential development refer to the communal open space provisions of the ADG 
which  supplements  SEPP  65  –  Design  Quality  of  Residential  Apartment 
Development. 

Advisory Note:  
Any  opportunity  for  rooftop  gardens  or  landscaping  is  encouraged  to  add  to  residential  and  visual  amenity. 
Designs should encourage “greener” rooftops that incorporate planting, while minimising concrete and expanses 
of hard surfaces. Section 3.2.3 requires at least 50% of the rooftop area to be vegetated. 

3.5.3 Croydon Neighbourhood Centre 

Overview 

The  Croydon  Neighbourhood  Centre  (Figure  20)  is  characterised  by  retail  and  commercial 
uses  within  traditional  linear  shops.  In  the  main  street  block  of  The  Strand,  the  wide  road 
reserve  with  substantial  median  strip  plantings  creates  a  ‘boulevard’  feel.  The  high  quality 
buildings  in  The  Strand  and  surrounding  areas  including  the  heritage  listed  railway  station 
are part of the Malvern Hill Heritage Conservation Area.  

Desired Future Character 

The BLEP 2012 through the B1 Neighbourhood Centre zone and development standards will 
continue  the  land  use  profile  and  built  form  of  preceding  years.  The  existing  character, 
function  and  streetscape  of  the  neighbourhood  centre  will  be  maintained  through  the 
conservation  and  enhancement  of  existing  buildings,  structures  and  works.  Any  further 
development  is  likely  to  be  of  a  small  infill  nature  primarily  towards  the  rear  of  sites, 
particularly sites along The Strand that have rear lane access. Building details and finishes 
will be compatible with similar features and materials used in the existing building.  

Notwithstanding the expectation of little change, the DCP includes more detailed provisions 
to  cover  the  rare  circumstances  where  the  facades  and  street  built form are  the  subject  of 
redevelopment for example due to repair or replacement due to damage.  

86 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 20: Croydon Neighbourhood Centre 

Controls for Croydon Neighbourhood Centre 

Building Form 

Objectives 

O1 

To maintain the character and streetscape of the area through the conservation and 
enhancement of existing buildings, structures and work. 

O2 

To facilitate infill development while maintaining the existing character of the street. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

Development  at  the  rear  of  sites  should  not  be  visible  from  The  Strand  and  must 
complement the existing building.  

Street  front  development  will  only  be  permitted  in  certain  circumstances  (repair, 
replacement)  and  must  enhance  the  existing  streetscape  and  be  of  a  similar  scale, 
grain,  form,  bulk,  placement  and  character  to  adjoining  and  nearby  street  front 
development.  

P3 

Continuous  awnings  that  match  the  building  design  and  are  complementary  to 
adjoining development must be provided.   

87 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Street Front Setbacks 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

O3 

O4 

To develop and create a strong definition of streets and public spaces. 

To  ensure  that  the  built  form  assists  in  forming  the  character  of  the  public  urban 
space. 

To improve the quality of the public domain.  

To invigorate the street front to provide the opportunity for commercial development 
at ground level, and where appropriate, above ground level.  

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

P3 

P4 

P5 

Development  must  be  built  to  the  street  front  boundary  on  all  primary  streets  (The 
Strand, Thomas Street, Malvern Avenue, Meta Street and Hennessey Street.  

All development must be built to the side boundary. 

All ground level development must be finished at-grade with the Council footpath and 
finished with materials to match Council’s current public domain requirements.  

No vehicle access will be permitted from the primary street frontage of The Strand.  

Development  at  ground  level  must  have  an  active  street  frontage  (entrances,  shop 
front, glazing)  at  the  same  general  level  as  the  footpath,  and  be  accessible  directly 
from the street. 

Side and Rear Setbacks  

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To define the urban form of development.  

To minimise the amenity impact of development on adjoining properties.  

Provisions  

P1 

P2 

All development must be built to the side boundary. 

For  rear  setbacks,  buildings  are  not  to  exceed  a  45  degree  height  plane  projected 
over  the  site  and  commencing  1.8m  above  the  rear  boundary  of  the  lot  where  it 
adjoins a Residential zone containing residential development, or from the boundary 
of a rear laneway (where such exists) and an adjoining Residential zone containing   
residential development.   

P3 

Side and/or rear setbacks must be free of any projections or encroachments except 
for at-grade landscaping.   

88 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.6  Area Based Controls – Parramatta Road Enterprise Corridor 

The  Parramatta  Road  corridor  is  a  linear  urban  strip  from  Broadway  in  Sydney  City  to 
Church  Street  in  Parramatta.  The  State  Government’s  Metropolitan  Strategy  documents 
highlight its role as an enterprise corridor and provide a basic framework for planning by the 
local authorities, including: 

Retail activity in the zone to focus on high exposure, affordable locations for activities that do 
not compete with strategic centres and provide a buffer to adjoining residential areas. 

Residential development to be restricted due to the impacts of road noise and air pollution. 

The southern side of Parramatta Road between  Moseley Street Strathfield in the  west and 
Lang Street Croydon in the east lies within the Burwood LGA. Land uses are characterised 
by a wide variety of retail, business and light industrial activities. Built forms vary from small 
scale  street  front  shop  buildings  and  light  industries  to  former  factory  buildings,  small  and 
large scale vehicle sales establishments, bulky goods retailing, service stations and old-style 
residential flat buildings.  

Burwood’s section of the Parramatta Road corridor (Figure 21) is distinctive in comprising a 
thin strip of land mostly only one allotment deep. Traffic congestion, noise and air pollution 
impacts  are  high  as  currently  Burwood’s  section  lies  within  the  existing  arterial  road  gap, 
resulting in very high daily traffic flows.  

Desired Future Character 

The B6 Enterprise Corridor zone should continue the evolution of Burwood’s section of the 
Parramatta  Road  corridor  towards  larger  scale  land  uses  that  take  advantage  of  the  main 
road location while ensuring the impacts of activities are contained within the B6 zoned land. 
Over time the replacement activities are likely to include but are not limited to higher quality 
and larger scale vehicle sales premises, bulky goods and large footplate retailing, food and 
drink  premises,  some  accommodation  developments,  and  other  service  businesses. 
Buildings within the corridor will be of low-medium scale and higher design quality, and deal 
with access and parking on site. They will be encouraged to locate closer to and address the 
road (vehicle sales businesses will be a special case) while ensuring that direct impacts on 
adjoining residential property owners are minimised. Design and location, together with the 
mix of land uses should encourage a more active street frontage in the corridor. 

89 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 21: Parramatta Road Enterprise Corridor 

Aims 

The aims for this DCP section are: 

•  To support change and improvement in the character and quality of the corridor, its land 

uses, amenity and local environment. 

•  To  ensure  that  the  impacts  of  land  uses  are  contained  within  the  corridor  with  no  or 

minimal overflow to adjoining residential areas. 

•  To  provide  appropriate  protection  through  the  design  and  location  of  buildings  in  the 
corridor to the amenity, solar access and privacy of adjoining low density residential land 
to the south. 

•  To encourage an active street character through building setbacks, location and design, 
the  inclusion  of  residential  development  and  the  location  of  parking  underground  or 
behind buildings. 

Parramatta Road Street Front Setbacks 

Objectives 

O1 

To establish the relationship of buildings to the street. 

O2 

O3 

To encourage an active street character. 

To provide space for landscaping and improve local amenity. 

90 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provisions 

P1 

P2 

P3 

P4 

P5 

Location  of  buildings  close  to  the  Parramatta  Road  boundary  at  ground  level  is 
required. A maximum of 5m setback preferred, and part of the building may be built 
to the street front boundary for a maximum of 50% of the site width. 

Setback  areas  must  be free  of  any  projections  or  encroachments from  any  building 
with  the  exception  of  approved  awning  structures  including  shade  sails that  provide 
weather and sun protection, and at-grade landscaping.  

Setback  areas  must  include  landscaping  that  improves  the  amenity  of  the  site  and 
the  street frontage,  and paving  that facilitates  pedestrian  access  to  activities  on  the 
site. 

Use of setback areas for car parking is discouraged. 

In the case of vehicle sale or hire premises only, the street front setback area may be 
used for the display of vehicles (but not customer car parking) provided high quality 
fencing,  vehicular  access  and  parking,  and  clear  pedestrian  access  are  included  in 
the development. 

P6 

Buildings on corner sites are to be articulated to address each street frontage and are 
to define prominent corners. 

Parramatta Road Secondary Setbacks 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To establish the relationship of buildings to the streets. 

To enhance the urban quality of the streetscape. 

Provisions 

P1  Where the building exceeds 9m in height that part of the building above 9m must be 

setback a minimum of 3m from the street front of Parramatta Road. 

P2 

Secondary  setbacks  of  buildings  must  be  free  of  any  projections  or  encroachments 
from any building, except for lightweight balconies.  

Side Street Setbacks 

These provisions apply to sites that also have a frontage to a side street. 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To establish the relationship of buildings to the streets. 

To enhance the urban quality of the streetscape. 

Provisions 

P1 

There is no minimum or maximum setback to a side street. Part of the building may 
be built to the street front boundary for a maximum of 50% of the frontage to the side 
street. 

91 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P2  Where  a  building  exceeds  8m  in  height  on  a  side  street  frontage,  that  part  of  the 
building above 8m must have a secondary setback of a minimum of 3m from the side 
street boundary.   

P3 

P4 

P5 

P6 

Setback areas at ground level must be free of any encroachment or projection from 
any building with the exception of approved awning structures including shade sails 
that provide weather and sun protection.  

Setback  areas  must  include  landscaping  that  improves  the  amenity  of  the  site  and 
the  street frontage,  and paving  that facilitates  pedestrian  access  to  activities  on  the 
site. Primary setback areas cannot be used for the provision of car parking. 

In the case of vehicle sale or hire premises only, the side street primary setback area 
may  be  used  for  the  display  of  vehicles  provided  high  quality  fencing,  vehicular 
access and parking, and clear pedestrian access are included in the development. 

Buildings on corner sites are to be articulated to address each street frontage and are 
to define prominent corners. 

Figure 21(a): Parramatta Road Street Front and Side Street Setbacks 

Side and Rear Boundary Setbacks 

These provisions apply to sites with boundaries that immediately adjoin another property or 
a laneway.  

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

O3 

To define the urban form of development. 

To  limit  building  heights to facilitate  adequate solar  access to  land  adjoining  the  B6 
zone. 

To mitigate any adverse effects on the amenity of existing and future residents living 
adjacent to the B6 zone.  

92 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provisions 

P1 

P2 

P3 

Buildings  may  be  erected  to  the  side  boundary  and  must  be  erected  to  the  side  or 
rear boundary of a site that adjoins a residential zone, subject to P2 below. 

For side and rear setbacks on boundaries adjoining a Residential zone, buildings are 
not  to  exceed  a  45  degree  height  plane  projected  over  the  site  and  commencing 
1.8m above the relevant site boundary.   

For setbacks on boundaries separated from a Residential Zone by Wychbury Lane, 
Bennett  Street,  Esher  Lane  or  Britannia  Lane,  buildings  are  not  to  exceed  a  45 
degree  height  plane  projected  over  the  site  and  commencing  1.8m  above  the 
relevant site boundary.  

Building Separation/Frontage 

Objective 

O1 

To assist in achieving adequate levels of natural light and visual and acoustic privacy 
for the residential component of development. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

Any part of a building comprising shop top housing as defined in the BLEP 2012 is to 
comply with the building separation provisions of the ADG that supplements SEPP 65 
– Design Quality of Residential Apartment Development  

The  maximum  length  in  any  direction  of  any  part  of  a  building  parallel  to  the  street 
above 9m in height is 30m. This portion of the building must be suitably articulated to 
alleviate building mass and improve building appearance. 

Location and Design of Shop Top Housing 

Objective 

O1 

To enhance the amenity of the residential component of development. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

The  location  of  shop  top  housing  within  a  development  is  to  maximise  views  and 
vistas and reduce the risk of noise and air pollution for residents. 

Measures such as double glazing of windows are encouraged to reduce the impact of 
noise on residents of shop top housing.  

93 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.7 

Transport and Parking in Centres and Corridors 

3.7.1 Strategic Approach 

The BLEP 2012 provides substantial capacity for growth in housing, employment, shopping 
and  services  in  Burwood’s  Centres  and  Corridors  zoned  B4,  B2  and  B6.  Such  growth  will 
increase the demand for travel, and place additional pressure on the transport system and 
parking  supply  in  the  Burwood  LGA.  At  the  same  time  ongoing  population  and  economic 
growth in the  Metropolitan Region is likely to  increase travel demand generally and private 
vehicle use in particular.  

Local  policy  on  transport  and  parking  must  respond  to  these  challenges.  The  functions  of 
centres and corridors must be preserved and improved. Their amenity as places for people 
needs to be protected and enhanced. This will require better management of the local road 
system  and  parking  supply,  and  improved  utilisation  of  Burwood’s  substantial  public 
transport facilities, and of opportunities for mobility by walking and cycling.  

3.7.2 Burwood Town Centre and Strathfield Town Centre 

Overview 

The BTC LEP 2010, now incorporated into the BLEP 2012, has established a strong growth 
trajectory for the BTC. The BLEP 2012 extends controls similar to the BTC along Burwood 
Road North, and also has increased the development capacity of the STC (in the Burwood 
LGA) through an expanded area and increased development standards.  

Over  the  next  two  decades,  both  Centres  will  be  major  focuses  of  growth  in  housing, 
employment,  shopping  and  services.  They  are  well  suited  to  high  density  activities  having 
close proximity to arterial roads and excellent public transport accessibility by rail and bus.  

The challenges for the Town Centres will be to meet the divergent travel needs of users of 
the Centres while encouraging development, maintain competitiveness locally in the Region, 
and enhance environmental quality and amenity. Innovative approaches to managing travel 
demand and parking supply will be necessary.  

The objectives for transport, traffic and parking policy in the Town Centres are: 

Objectives 

O1 

Improve  traffic  management  in  the  Centres  to  minimise  congestion  and  adverse 
environmental and amenity impacts. 

O2  Maintain the operational viability of public transport services, with particular regard to 

the needs of buses. 

O3 

O4 

O5 

O6 

Increase the use of public transport, walking and cycling for trips generated by new 
development. 

Ensure  the  appropriate  provision  of  parking  supply  to  meet  the  different  needs  of 
users and encourage the regional competiveness of the Town Centres. 

Emphasise  the  availability  of  short-stay  parking  for  visitors  to  the  Town  Centres, 
being  customers  of  businesses,  shops  and  services  and  visitors  to  residents  of  the 
Centres. 

Facilitate  expansion  of  convenient  public  off-street  parking  areas  by  providing 
opportunities  for  voluntary  developer  contributions  in  place  of  on-site  parking  and 
establishing a planning framework for provision of additional public parking areas. 

94 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
O7 

O8 

O9 

Ensure  that  the  community’s  investment  in  and  use  of  parking  infrastructure  is 
efficient, has regard to site features and the patterns of demand in the centres. 

Require  a  broader  assessment  of  transport,  traffic  and  parking  factors  in  the 
Development Application process. 

Ensure  that  appropriate  criteria  for  safety  and  personal  security  are  applied  to  the 
location, accessibility and design of parking areas, to loading, unloading and service 
facilities,  to  the  needs  of  people  with  disabilities,  and  to  facilities  for  cyclists  and 
pedestrians. 

Provisions 

Advisory Note: 
All provisions apply to the Burwood Road North area zoned B4 Mixed Use as well as the BTC and STC. 

P1 

P2 

Basic parking requirement: Development in the B4 Mixed Use zone in the Burwood 
and Strathfield Town Centres must provide parking spaces on site for each proposed 
land use in accordance with the Table 2. 

Parking  for  visitors  to  the  Burwood  Town  Centre  and  the  Strathfield  Town 
Centre:  Notwithstanding  P1,  in  the  B4  Mixed  Use  zone,  Council  may  consider  and 
accept  an  offer  from  an  applicant  of  a  monetary  contribution  for  Visitors  Parking  in 
lieu of the provision on-site of all or part of the parking requirement. Such an offer is 
voluntary and subject to Council’s agreement at its discretion. If approved, it will be 
administered  through  a  Voluntary  Planning  Agreement  under  the  Environmental 
Planning and Assessment Act 1979. 

For the purposes of this DCP sub-section Visitors Parking means: 

 
 
Parking  demand  generated  by  persons  in  vehicles  making  short-term  visits  to  the 
residents of buildings comprising residential flat buildings or shop top housing in the 
B4 Mixed Use zones, as specified in Table 2 

Parking  demand  generated  by  the  short  term  needs  of  persons  in  vehicles  making 
short-term  visits  to  access  commercial  premises  (comprising  office,  business  and 
retail  premises)  and  other  defined  land  uses  in  the  BTC,  as  specified  in  Table  2 
below. 

The reasons for adoption of this strategy are: 

 
 
 
Locating some spaces in consolidated public car parks that have extended opening 
hours, higher turnover and safe and secure access will provide better, more useable 
parking facilities being available to the general public.  

Locating  some  spaces  in  consolidated  public  parking  areas  means  better  use  of 
resources and value for money for developers and the community.  

Locating  some  spaces  in  consolidated  public  parking  areas  supports  greener  and 
cleaner  outcomes  for  the  community.  Business  centres  need  adequate  parking 
supply to meet the needs of users and to compete with other centres, balanced with 
encouragement of public transport use, walking and cycling that can help reduce on-
street  traffic  congestion,  and  improve  a  centre’s  amenity  and  attractiveness  to 
visitors.  

The circumstances in which Council may consider and accept an offer for Visitors Parking 
are:  

95 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Residential flat buildings and shop top housing 

The requirement under P1 for Visitors Parking for residential flat buildings and shop top 
housing,  additional  to  the  requirement  for  parking  for  residents,  may  be  subject  to  an 
offer  of  a  monetary  contribution  for  all  or  part  of  such  visitors  parking  in  lieu  of  on-site 
provision. Council will consider and may accept the offer at its discretion.  

The  voluntary  monetary  contribution  offered  must  be  equal  to  the  number  of  visitors 
spaces not being provided on site, multiplied by the dollar amount of the cost of providing 
an on-site parking space (see P4 below). A discount of 20% is then applied because the 
funds received will be used by Council to increase the parking supply in off-street public 
parking areas where it can be provided and used more efficiently.  

The following formula applies, and calculation is pro-rata, that is, the actual number to 1 
decimal point: 

(Number of spaces not being provided on site X cost of an on-site parking space) X 0.8 = 
Visitors Parking contribution in lieu offer 

Example: (8.2 X $49,500) X 0.8 = $324,720 

2.  Retail  premises,  Registered  clubs,  and  other  land  uses  as  specified  in  the  Table  as 
having the same parking provision rates 

For the parking spaces required for the development above the 1 space for the first 400 
sqm (as specified under P1), Council may consider and accept at its discretion an offer 
of  a  monetary  contribution  for  Visitors  Parking,  which  comprises  some  or  all  of  the 
required spaces, in lieu of on-site provision.  

The voluntary monetary contribution offered must be equal to the number of spaces not 
being provided on site, multiplied by the dollar amount of the cost of providing an on-site 
parking space (see P4 below). A discount of 20% is then applied because funds received 
will be used by Council to increase the parking supply in off-street public parking areas 
where it can be provided and used more efficiently. 

The following formula applies, and calculation is pro-rata, that is, the actual number to 1 
decimal point: 

(Number of spaces not being provided on site X cost of an on-site parking space) X 0.8 = 
Visitors Parking contribution in lieu offer 

Example: (8.2 X $49,500) X 0.8 = $324,720 

Please  note  that  the  allowance  for  Visitors  Parking  under  this  subsection  only 
does  not  apply  to  Major  Development,  which  is  defined  for  the  purposes  of  this 
subsection  as  comprising  a  gross  floor  area  of  more  than  2,000  sqm  or  as 
otherwise  determined  by  Council.  All  parking  for  Major  Development  must  be 
provided on site. 

3. Business premises and Office premises, and other land uses as specified in the Table 
as having the same parking provision rates 

For the parking spaces required for the development above the 1 space for the first 400 
sqm (as specified under P1), Council may consider and accept at its discretion an offer 
of  a  monetary  contribution  for  Visitors  Parking,  which  comprises  up  to  20%  of  the 
required spaces, in lieu of on-site provision.  

The voluntary monetary contribution offered must be equal to the number of spaces not 
being provided on site, multiplied by the dollar amount of the cost of providing an on-site 
parking space (see P4 below). A discount of 20% is then applied because funds received 
will be used by Council to increase the parking supply in off-street public parking areas 
where it can be provided and used more efficiently.  

96 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following formula applies, and calculation is pro-rata, that is, the actual number to 1 
decimal point: 

(Number of spaces not being provided on site X cost of an on-site parking space) X 0.8 = 
Visitors Parking contribution in lieu offer 

Example: (8.2 X $49,500) X 0.8 = $324,720 

P3 

Other parking not provided on site: In the B4 zone in the Burwood and Strathfield 
Town  Centres,  and  along  Burwood  Road  North,  if  an  applicant  for  development  is 
unable to provide the on-site parking spaces as determined under P1 from the Table 
(other than Visitors Parking spaces agreed in accordance with P2 above) because it 
is a difficult site, Council may consider an offer of a monetary contribution in lieu of 
the  on-site  provision  of  the  parking  spaces.  Such  an  offer  is  voluntary  and  will  be 
accepted solely at Council’s discretion. If approved by Council, it will be administered 
through  a  Voluntary  Planning  Agreement  under  the  Environmental  Planning  and 
Assessment Act 1979. 

The characteristics that Council will take into account in determining if it is a difficult 
site include: 

 
 
 
The  site  is  very  small,  i.e.  less  than  the  minimum  subdivision  lot  size  for  the 
area in the BLEP 2012,and isolated with no opportunities for amalgamation or 

The site is small, i.e. less than 600 sqm and there are limited options for on-site 
parking  provision,  e.g.  the  site  is  mostly  occupied  by  existing  buildings  and 
involves only a change of use or 

Vehicular  access  is  severely  constrained,  e.g.  the  site  only  has  frontage  to 
Classified road. 

It is the responsibility of the applicant to demonstrate that one or more of the above 
features applies and that redevelopment or the change of use is unlikely to be viable 
economically if parking requirements are applied strictly. 

This  option  does  not  apply  to  development  of  residential  accommodation  or 
serviced apartments in the B4 Mixed Use zone. However, Council resolved on 
23 July 2013 that this option can be applied to boarding houses. 

The voluntary monetary contribution offered must be equal to the number of spaces 
not being provided on site, multiplied by the dollar amount of the cost of providing an 
on-site  parking  space  (see  P4  below).  There  is  no  discount  in  these  cases.  The 
following formula applies, and the calculation is pro-rata, that is, the actual number to 
1 decimal point: 

(Number of spaces not being provided on site X the cost of an on-site parking space) 
= Parking contribution in lieu offer. 

Example: (4.3 X $49,500) = $212,850 

P4 

Parking space cost figures for formulas: Calculations of the offer for a contribution 
in  lieu  of  on-site  parking  provision  through  the  formulas  in  P2  and  P3  above  are  to 
use the cost figure per space applicable in the  year the Development Application is 
made, as published in the Schedule of Fees and Charges on Council’s website. The 
cost  figure  per  parking  space  is  updated  annually  in  accordance  with  construction 
cost movements.  

97 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P5 

P6 

P7 

Parking  for  people  with  a  disability:  Notwithstanding  any  voluntary  monetary 
contribution made under P2 or P3 above, parking for people with a disability required 
under legislation or applicable Australian Standards must be provided on the site of 
the  development  where  it  is  practicable  to  do  so.  This  is  the  case  even  where  it 
amounts to an increased total provision of parking for a development.  

Change of use: Where Table 2 indicates that additional parking is required for a land 
use that is a change of use of existing floor area the above opportunities for voluntary 
contributions  in  lieu  of  on-site  provision  of  parking  spaces  may  apply  at  Council’s 
discretion where the applicable criteria are met. 

Use  of  funds  received  under  Voluntary  Planning  Agreements  (VPAs):  Refer  to 
Council’s  adopted  policy  for  expenditure  of  funds  received  under  P3,  which  is  an 
addendum to Council’s VPA policy. 

3.7.3 Local Centres 

Overview 

Burwood’s two Local Centres, zoned B2 in the BLEP 2012, extend along several Classified 
(main) Roads. The Croydon Park Local Centre fronts Georges River Road. The Enfield Local 
Centre is in three parts: in the west it extends along Liverpool Road and Coronation Parade 
in  the  east  it  extends  along  Liverpool  Road  and  Burwood  Road,  and  there  is  a  third  area 
fronting the southern side of Liverpool Road at the mid-point. In all locations some of the B2-
zoned land also has side street frontages. 

Generally the Local Centres have easier parking availability than the Town Centres and are 
more  readily  accessible  from  surrounding  residential  areas.  They  are  all  located  on  major 
bus  corridors  connected  to  rail  stations,  providing  good  public  transport  accessibility, 
although not to the same extent as Burwood’s Town Centres. 

The  Local  Centres  play  an  important  role  in  providing  smaller  scale  convenience  shopping 
and  business  services  to  the  local  and  subregional  population.  They  are  an  important 
location for restaurants and cafes, and takeaway food and drink premises, and increasingly 
medium  density  residential  development.  The  BLEP  2012  will  ensure  there  is  adequate 
capacity  for  the  Local  Centres’  service  functions  to  continue,  while  also  increasing  the 
opportunities for residential development. 

The challenges in the Local Centres are to meet the travel and parking needs of users of the 
Centres  while  encouraging  development,  to  minimise  adverse  impacts  on  the  transport 
functions of the Classified Roads, and to enhance local environmental quality and amenity. 
The  following  objectives  for  transport,  traffic  and  parking  policy  in  the  Local  Centres  are 
adopted. 

Objectives 

O1 

Improve  traffic management  in  the  Centres  to minimise  congestion,  reduce  impacts 
on  Classified  Road  traffic  flows,  improve  safety  and  contain  adverse  environmental 
and amenity impacts. 

O2  Maintain the operational viability of bus public transport services for the Centres. 

O3 

O4 

O5 

Enhance opportunities for access by public transport, walking and cycling 

Ensure  the  appropriate  provision  of  on-site  parking  supply  to  meet  the  needs  of 
users, and provide public off-street parking where opportunities arise. 

Ensure  a  broader  assessment  of  transport,  traffic  and  parking  factors  in  the 
Development Application process. 

98 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
O6 

Ensure  that  the  location,  accessibility  and  design  of  parking  areas,  and  of  loading, 
unloading and service facilities where necessary, meet appropriate criteria for safety 
and personal security, the needs of people with disabilities, facilities for cyclists and 
pedestrians, enhancement of the quality of the streetscape. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

P3 

Basic  parking  requirement:  Development  in  the  B2  Local  Centres  zone  must 
provide  parking  spaces  on  site  for  each  proposed  land  use  in  accordance  with  the 
Table 2. 

Parking for visitors to Centres: There are no arrangements for Visitors Parking in 
the Local Centres by way of contributions in lieu of on-site provision.  

Other parking not provided on site: In the B2 zone, if an applicant for development 
is  unable  to  provide  or  chooses  not  to  provide  the  on-site  parking  spaces  as 
determined from the Table, because it is a difficult site, Council may consider an offer 
of a monetary contribution in lieu of the on-site provision of the parking spaces. Such 
an offer is voluntary and will be accepted solely at Council’s discretion. If approved by 
Council,  it  will  be  administered  through  a  Voluntary  Planning  Agreement  under  the 
Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979. 

 The characteristics that Council will take into account in determining if it is a difficult 
site include: 

 
 
 
The  site  is  very  small,  i.e.  less  than  the  minimum  subdivision  lot  size  for  the 
area in the BLEP 2012,and isolated with no opportunities for amalgamation, or 

The site is small, i.e. less than 600 sqm and there are limited options for on-site 
parking  provision,  e.g.  the  site  is  mostly  occupied  by  existing  buildings  and 
involves only a change of use, or 

Vehicular  access  is  severely  constrained,  e.g.  the  site  only  has  frontage  to 
Classified road. 

It is the responsibility of the applicant to demonstrate that one or more of the above 
features applies and that redevelopment or the change of use is unlikely to be viable 
economically if parking requirements are applied strictly. 

This  option  does  not  apply  to  development  of  residential  accommodation  or 
serviced apartments in the B2 Local Centre zone. 

The voluntary monetary contribution offered must be equal to the number of spaces 
not being provided on site, multiplied by the dollar amount of the cost of providing an 
on-site  parking  space  (see  P4  below),  less  a  discount  of  50%  in  recognition  of  the 
development economics applying in the B2 zone. The following formula applies, and 
the  calculation  is  and  the  calculation  is  pro-rata,  that  is,  the  actual  number  to  1 
decimal point: 

(Number of spaces not being provided on site X cost of an on-site parking space) X 
0.5 = Visitors Parking contribution in lieu offer. 

Example: (2.2 X $49,500) X 0.5 = $54,450 

P4 

Parking space cost figures for formulas: Calculations of the offer for a contribution 
in  lieu  of  on-site  parking  provision  through  the  formulas  in  P2  and  P3  above  are  to 
use the cost figure per space applicable in the  year the Development Application is 
made, as published in the Schedule of Fees and Charges on Council’s website. The 

99 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cost  figure  per  parking  space  is  updated  annually  in  accordance  with  construction 
cost movements.  

P5 

P6 

P7 

Parking  for  people  with  a  disability:  Notwithstanding  any  voluntary  monetary 
contribution made under P2 or P3 above, parking for people with a disability required 
under legislation or applicable Australian Standards must be provided on the site of 
the  development  where  it  is  practicable  to  do  so.  This  is  the  case  even  where  it 
amounts to an increased total provision of parking for a development. 

Change of use: Where Table 2 indicates that additional parking is required for a land 
use that is a change of use of existing floor area, the above opportunity for voluntary 
contributions  in  lieu  of  on-site  provision  of  parking  spaces  may  apply  at  Council’s 
discretion where the applicable criteria are met. 

Use  of  funds  received  under  Voluntary  Planning  Agreements  (VPAs):  Refer  to 
Council’s  adopted  policy  for  expenditure  of  funds  received  under  P3,  which  is  an 
addendum to Council’s VPA policy. 

3.7.4 Neighbourhood Centres 

Overview 

Land zoned B1 Neighbourhood Centre in the BLEP 2012 is located in several small pockets 
in  Tangarra  Street  Enfield  and  Arthur  St  Croydon  Park.  The  main  area  is  on  both  sides  of 
Croydon rail Station, on land fronting The Strand, and Young/Hennessey Streets. 

The former meet a very local need. The Croydon Neighbourhood Centre plays a significant 
role  in  meeting  local  needs  for  convenience  shopping  and  business  services,  as  well  as 
restaurants and cafes, and takeaway food and drink premises. 

The  BLEP  2012  does  not  anticipate  or  facilitate  any  significant  growth  in  the  smaller 
neighbourhood  centres.  Given  its  special  character  and  inclusion  in  the  Malvern  Hill 
Conservation  Area,  the  Croydon  Neighbourhood  Centre  is  unlikely  to  change  significantly. 
There is already a public off-street parking area for the Centre at the corner of Paisley Road 
and Fitzroy Street.  

The  management  priorities  for  the  Croydon  Neighbourhood  Centre  focus  on  traffic  to 
minimise  congestion  and  adverse  environmental  and  amenity  impacts,  and  on  parking 
supply to ensure that the Centre remains viable.  

Any requirement for increased parking resulting from new development or intensification of 
use should be met firstly by on site provision, and if Council agrees this is not possible in the 
context of site limitations or other priorities such as heritage conservation, acceptance of a 
voluntary  contribution  in  lieu  may  be  appropriate  at  Council’s  discretion  and  will  be 
administered  through  a  Voluntary  Planning  Agreement  under  the  Environmental  Planning 
and Assessment Act 1979.  

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

P3 

Basic  parking  requirement:  Development  in  the  B1  Neighbourhood  Centre  zone 
must provide parking spaces on site for each proposed land use in accordance with 
the Table 2. 

Parking for visitors to Centres: There are no arrangements for Visitors Parking in 
the Neighbourhood Centres by way of contributions in lieu of on-site provision. 

Other parking not provided on site: In the B1 zone, if an applicant for development 
is  unable  to  provide  or  chooses  not  to  provide  the  on-site  parking  spaces  as 

100 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
determined from the Table, because it is a difficult site, Council may consider an offer 
of a monetary contribution in lieu of the on-site provision of the parking spaces. Such 
an offer is voluntary and will be accepted solely at Council’s discretion. If approved by 
Council,  it  will  be  administered  through  a  Voluntary  Planning  Agreement  under  the 
Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979. 

The  characteristics  that  Council  will  take  into  account  in  determining  if  a  site  is  a 
difficult site include: 

 
 
The  site  is  very  small,  i.e.  less  than  the  minimum  subdivision  lot  size  for  the 
area in the BLEP 2012, and isolated with no opportunities for amalgamation, or 

Vehicular  access  is  severely  constrained  and  there  are  limited  options  for  on-
site parking provision, e.g. the site is mostly occupied by existing buildings and 
involves only a change of use. 

It is the responsibility of the applicant to demonstrate that one or more of the above 
features applies and that redevelopment or the change of use is unlikely to be viable 
economically if parking requirements are applied strictly. 

Please  note  that  this  option  does  not  apply  to  development  of  residential 
accommodation in the B1 Neighbourhood Centre zone. 

The voluntary monetary contribution offered must be equal to the number of spaces 
not being provided on site, multiplied by the dollar amount of the cost of providing an 
on-site  parking  space  (see  P4  below),  less  a  discount  of  50%  in  recognition  of  the 
development economics applying in the B1 zone. The following formula applies, and 
the calculation is pro rata, that is, the actual number to 1 decimal point: 

(Number of spaces not being provided on site X cost of an on-site parking space) X 
0.5 = Visitors Parking contribution in lieu offer 

Example: (2.2 X $49,500) X 0.5 = $54,450 

P4 

P5 

P6 

P7 

Parking space cost figures for formulas: Calculations of the offer for a contribution 
in  lieu  of  on-site  parking  provision  through  the  formulas  in  P2  and  P3  above  are  to 
use the cost figure per space applicable in the  year the Development Application is 
made, as published in the Schedule of Fees and Charges on Council’s website.   The 
cost  figure  per  parking  space  is  updated  annually  in  accordance  with  construction 
cost movements. 

Parking  for  people  with  a  disability:  Notwithstanding  any  voluntary  monetary 
contribution made under P3 above, parking for people with a disability required under 
legislation  or  applicable  Australian  Standards  must  be  provided  on  the  site  of  the 
development where it is practicable to do so. This is the case even where it amounts 
to an increased total provision of parking.  

Change of use: Where Table 2 indicates that additional parking is required for a land 
use that is a change of use of existing floor area, the above opportunity for voluntary 
contributions  in  lieu  of  on-site  provision  of  parking  spaces  may  apply  at  Council’s 
discretion where the applicable criteria are met. 

Use of funds received under Voluntary Planning Agreements (VPAs): Refer to 
Council’s adopted policy for expenditure of funds received under P3, which is an 
addendum to Council’s VPA policy. 

101 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.7.5 The Parramatta Road Enterprise Corridor 

Overview 

The  Enterprise  Corridor  in  the  BLEP  2012  extends  along  the  whole  of  Parramatta  Road 
within  Burwood  LGA.  Many  lots  have  frontage  to  this  Classified  Road  only  although  some 
lots also have side street frontage or rear lane access.  
The Corridor has always played an important regional role as a location for light and general 
industries,  car  sales,  servicing  and  repairs,  service  stations  and  the  like.  In  recent  years 
many  of  the  car-based  functions  have  remained  but  there  has  also  been  some  transition 
towards  bulky  goods  sales  and  self-storage  activities.  Limited  parking  supply  and 
constrained vehicular access are constraints on development. 

The  BLEP  2012’s  application  of  the  B6  Enterprise  Corridor  zone,  is  expected  maintain  the 
car-related  functions  while  reinforcing  the  transition  towards  retail  activities  involving  food 
and  drink  premises  and  those  needing  large  lots  such  as  bulky  goods,  timber,  hardware, 
garden and landscaping. Development capacity of the corridor is increased under the BLEP, 
except  for  residential  development  which  is  restricted  to  limited  Shop-top  housing  not 
exceeding approximately 10% of gross floor area. 

The  transport  priorities  for  the  Corridor  are  to  reduce  impacts  on  Classified  Road  traffic 
flows,  improve  pedestrian  and  vehicular  safety  and  contain  adverse  environmental  and 
amenity  impacts.  Adequate  on-site  parking  provision  with  safe  access  is  important.  The 
elongated corridor  makes  it  difficult to  provide  public  off-street  parking that  would  benefit  a 
large number of lots. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

Basic parking requirement: Development in the B6 Enterprise Corridor zone must 
provide  parking  spaces  on  site  for  each  proposed  land  use  in  accordance  with  the 
Table 2. Applications that do not meet this requirement will be refused. 

Voluntary contributions in lieu of on-site parking: There are no arrangements in 
the  Enterprise  Corridor  for  voluntary  contributions  in  lieu  of  on-site  provision  of  the 
parking generated by the development. All parking required for a development must 
be provided on site. 

3.7.6 General Requirements in All Centres and Corridors – B1, B2, B4 and B6 Zones 

P1 
 
 
 
Compliance with Australian Standards: The design and construction of on-site: 

parking areas and parking spaces 

service and loading/unloading areas 

access to, from and within these facilities 

is  to  comply  with  the  applicable  Australian  Standards.  These  Standards  cover  a  range  of 
technical requirements including design elements, dimensions, gradients, headroom, curves, 
delivery and service areas, and special requirements for people with disabilities.  

The applicable standards are the most recent versions of: 

     
AS 2890.1 Part 1: Off-street car parking. 
AS 2890.2 Part 2: Off-street commercial vehicle facilities. 
AS 2890.3 Part 3: Bicycle parking facilities. 
AS 2890.5 Part 5: On-street parking. 
AS 2890.6 Part 6: Off-street parking for people with disabilities.  

102 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
AS 1428.1: Design for access and mobility. 
AS 1735.12: Lifts, escalators and moving walks - Facilities for persons with disabilities. 

P2 

Other general compliance matters: 

The provision of on-site parking areas, and loading and servicing facilities, must contribute to 
the retention and enhancement of the quality and integrity of the streetscape and integrate 
with surrounding development. 
A loading dock and servicing facilities for developments must be provided as required by AS 
2890.2  Part  2:  Off-street  commercial  vehicle  facilities,  or  in  any  case  for  all  developments 
erected on land having an area greater than 1500 sqm.  
Where  parking  is  provided  for  development  that  includes  Retail  premises  and  Business 
premises,  and  all  of  the  required  parking  is  provided  on-site  (i.e.  the  development  has  not 
made  a  substantial  voluntary  contribution  for  parking  in  lieu  of  on-site  provision),  the 
following additional requirements apply: 

 
the parking area must be open for public use within the normal trading and operating 
hours of the site 

 
the parking area must be accessible with appropriate directional signage, and 
must be clearly marked and signposted as public parking 

 
  within  the  building  where  the  parking  is  located,  there  must  be  clear, 
signposted  and  safe  access  between  the  parking  area  and  the  retail  or 
business premises on the site 
the management of the parking area in terms of signage, access permission, 
fees  charged  and  time  limits  of  parking,  and  any  changes  to  such 
management,  is  subject  to  Council’s  approval  as  part  of  the  Development 
Application process 
these requirements apply whether or not a parking area is open to public use 
on a paid or unpaid basis. 

 
Installation  of  automated  or  mechanical  car  parking  systems  to  meet  car  parking 
requirements for developments is not supported. Experience  with and observation  of these 
systems  indicates  significant  potential  for  adverse  impacts  arising  from  slow  operation 
causing  vehicle  queuing,  vehicle  size  constraints  that  are  not  appropriate  in  Australia,  and 
unreliability in cases of mechanical, hydraulic or electrical failure. Provision of free-standing 
spaces accessed by ramps is preferred. If restricted site size limits provision of traditional on-
site  parking,  consideration  should  be  given  to  a  voluntary  contribution  in  lieu  of  parking  in 
cases  where  this  is  accepted  under  this  DCP,  or  consolidation  of  lots  to  create  a  larger 
development site. 

Proposals to extend basement parking levels from private development sites into the areas 
of Council’s road reserves will not be supported. This is due to the practical, technical and 
legal  constraints  and complexities  in  implementation  of this  action  by  both  Council  and  the 
private site developer. 

P3 

Vehicular Access and Footpath Crossings 

All  vehicles  must  be  able  to  leave  on-site  parking  and  service  areas  in  a  forward 

direction 

Vehicular  access  for  development  must  be  provided  from  lanes  and  minor  or 
secondary streets where available, rather than major streets or Classified Roads. 
In particular, new vehicular access to land in the B4 Mixed Use zone from Burwood 
Road  or  The  Boulevarde,  or  to  land  in  the  B2  Local  centre  zone  from  Liverpool 
Road will not be approved. 

103 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vehicular  access  and  footpath  crossings  must  be  minimised  where  provided  the 
safety  of  pedestrians  and  cyclists  must  be  maintained  and  there  should  be  no 
more impacts on bus operations. 

Where loading and servicing facilities are provided, there must be sufficient space to 
enable  a  nine  metre  rigid  vehicle  to  queue  off  the  street  without  impacting  on 
footpath crossings. 

Vehicular access must have a nominal width of 2.7 metres over the footpath, and be 
perpendicular  to  the  kerb  alignment.  In  exceptional  circumstances,  a  double 
crossing with a nominal width of 5.4 metres may be permitted for safety reasons. 

Loading dock and other service functions must not interfere with vehicular access to 

parking areas. 

Openings  in  buildings  that  provide  vehicular  access  must  have  automatic  closing 

doors to conceal the opening from any public place. 

Doorways in buildings at vehicular access points must incorporate design details that 

create visual interest. 

Vehicular access points must have high quality finishes to walls and ceilings as well 
as  high  standard  detailing  that  is  integrated  with  the  building  design.  Service 
ducts or pipes must not be visible from the street. 

Separated  and  clearly  differentiated  pedestrian  and  vehicular  access  must  be 

provided, with vehicular access a minimum of 3m from pedestrian access. 

P4 

Plans  and  reports  on  transport,  traffic  and  parking  to  support  Development 
Applications:  

To  provide  adequate  information  for  the  assessment  of  proposals,  Development 
Applications  are  to  be  supported  by  one  of  the  following  reports,  depending  on  the 
scale and impact of the proposal. 

1.  Major  Development  -  Transport,  Traffic  and  Parking  Impact  Report  and  Management 
Plans 

Major  Development,  for  the  purposes  of  this  subsection  means  any  Commercial  premises 
(as  defined  in  the  BLEP  2012)  with  a  gross  floor  area  of  more  than  2,000  sqm,  or  any 
residential accommodation (as defined in the BLEP 2012) comprising 30 or more dwellings, 
or as otherwise determined by Council.  

A Development Application for Major Development in any zone is to be accompanied by a 
Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact Report and Management Plan prepared by a suitably 
qualified  and  experienced  professional  in  traffic  and  transport,  addressing  the  following 
matters: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proposed development and its suitability in terms of transport, traffic and parking 
impact 

The existing parking and traffic conditions 

The proposed traffic, parking and vehicle access arrangements 

The accessibility of public transport services, and walking and cycling facilities  

The  intended  measures  to  encourage  public  transport  use,  walking  and  cycling,  and 
reduce the use of private motor cars 

The  impact  of  the  development  on  the  surrounding  street  network  and  intended 
measures to ameliorate or manage that impact 

The  impact  of  the  proposed  development  on  the  efficient  and  safe  operation  of  bus 
services and passenger access 

The design and compliance with applicable Australian Standards 

Pedestrian and cyclist safety, personal security and safe access from parking areas to 
activities on a site or in the centre 

104 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signage and visual prominence of parking areas and accessibility during day and night 
periods 

Provision for loading, unloading and service facilities 

Provision for parking of bicycles and facilities for use of cyclists 

A  management  plan  covering  management  of  traffic  impacts  and  intended  measures 
to encourage public transport use, walking and cycling, and to manage travel demand 

Consistency with general aims and zone objectives of the BLEP 2012  

Consistency with the aims and objectives of this DCP set out in Section 2 

Compliance with the applicable requirements of this DCP Part. 

2. Other Development - Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact Report 

A  Development  Application  for  other  development,  not  being  Major  Development,  and 
located 
 
in the B4 Mixed Use and B6 Enterprise Corridor zones, or  

 
in any other zone as determined by Council on a case-by-case basis, 

is  to  be  accompanied  by  a  Transport,  Traffic  and  Parking  Impact  Report  prepared  by  a 
suitably  qualified  and  experienced  professional  in  traffic  and  transport,  addressing  the 
following matters:  

 
 
 
 
 
 
The proposed development 

The existing parking and traffic conditions and public transport conditions 

The proposed traffic, parking and access arrangements 

The impact of the development on traffic conditions in the surrounding street network 
including  bus  operations  and  intended  measures  to  ameliorate  or  manage  that 
impact 

Compliance with the applicable requirements of this DCP 

Consistency with the aims and objectives of this DCP set out in Section 2.  

P5 

Cycling  

Increased use of cycle travel to, from and within Burwood’s centres and corridors can 
help reduce reliance on private cars and improve public health. Burwood Council and 
the Inner West Sub-region have suitable terrain and the network of local and regional 
cycle paths is under continuous improvement. The following requirements apply: 

 
 
 
 
Development of Commercial premises involving the construction of gross floor 
area in excess of 400 sqm or three dwellings must include facilities for parking 
of  bicycles  (racks  and  lockers)  and  showers/change  rooms  for  use  by  bicycle 
riders.  

Standards  for  the  number  of  bicycle  parking  facilities  and  number  of 
showers/lockers  for  different  land  uses  are  provided  in  Cycling  Aspects  of 
Austroads  Guides  (Austroads  and  Standards  Australia  1999)  and  Planning 
Guidelines for Walking and Cycling (Department of Planning and the Roads and 
Traffic  Authority  2004)  developments  must  demonstrate  compliance  with  the 
requirements of either of these publications. 

Design  of  bicycle  parking  facilities  (racks  and  lockers)  must  be  in  accordance 
with  the  provisions  of  Australian  Standard  2890.3  –  Parking  Facilities  or 
Austroads  Guide  to  Engineering  Practice  Part  14  –  Bicycles.  Shower  and 
change  room  facilities  to  have  a  combined  area  of  not  less  than  2  sq  metres 
each. 

Bicycle parking devices must meet the following general requirements: 

105 

 
 
 
 
­ 

­ 
­ 

­ 

­ 
­ 

Enable wheels and frame to be locked to the device without damaging the 
vehicle. 

Be well located and lit for security purposes. 
Be in a convenient and accessible location outside pedestrian and vehicle 
movement paths. 
Be  protected  from  motor  vehicle  movements  and  useable  without 
damaging other bicycles. 
Be protected from the weather. 
Designed to fit in with the development. 

P6 

Active Travel Demand Management 

Travel demand management initiatives should be employed in new developments in 
centres  and  corridors  with  the  aim  of  reducing  car  based  travel  and  encouraging 
greater use of public transport, cycling, walking, and car sharing for commuting and 
work  related  journeys. Major  developments  are  encouraged to  assess their  impacts 
on travel demand and incorporate measures to encourage more sustainable travel. 

 
 
Development  that  comprises  Major  Development  must  include  a  Travel 
Demand  Management  section  in  the  Transport,  Traffic  and  Parking  Impact 
Report and Management Plan to accompany the DA. Major Development is as 
defined in P4 above.  

Examples of initiatives to be considered in the section include: 

­  Distributing brochures to occupants about public transport options available 

in the BTC 

­  Posting  up  to  date  public  transport  information  on  a  prominently  located 

notice board in the main foyer of the development.  

­  Providing staff with a limited number of free trips on local public transport, 

e.g. TravelTen. 

­  Providing  staff  with  a  substantial  discount  or  subsidy  on  public  transport 

costs 

­  Providing special transport to pick up and drop off occupants to the nearest 

railway station 

­  Providing staff with cycling allowances, loans and insurance together with 

bicycle storage and showering and changing facilities 

­  Adopting car pool scheme for work related journeys 
­ 
­  Using taxis for work related journeys. 

Introducing occupant car sharing scheme  

106 

 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 2 – Car Parking Rates in Centres and Corridors 

Applies to zones: 

B1 Neighbourhood Centre 
B2 Local Centre 
B4 Mixed Use  
B6 Enterprise Corridor 

Land Use 

Car Parking Rates Applying Where the 
Land Use is Permitted in the Zone  

Notes and other 
requirements 

General 
-  The stated parking provision rates are the minimum requirement, except where indicated 

otherwise for a specific land use. 

-  Calculation of the number of parking spaces required for a development is to be determined 
by rounding up to the nearest whole number where the decimal point is 0.5 and above, or 
rounded down to the nearest whole number where the decimal point is below 0.5. 

-  All parking is to be provided on the site of the development except where indicated otherwise 

for a specific land use. 

- 

In all cases the square metre areas in the Table refer to gross floor area as defined in the 
BLEP 2012 (or in a SEPP where applicable). 

-  The BTC is defined on the BLEP 2012 Burwood Town Centre Map. 

Land Use 

Car Parking Rates Applying Where the 
Land Use is Permitted in the Zone  

Notes and other 
requirements 

Residential Accommodation Category and Related 

  1 space per dwelling. 

  All parking must be 
provided on site. 

Dwelling houses, 
attached dwellings, 
semi-detached 
dwellings, secondary 
dwellings, dual 
occupancies 

Residential flat 
buildings 

Shop top housing 

Multi dwelling 
housing  

Parking for residents 
  O.5 spaces per studio or bed-sitter unit. 
  1 space per I and 2 bedroom unit. 
  1.5 spaces per 3 bedroom unit. 

Parking for visitors to residents of the 
development (Visitors Parking) 
  1 space per 5 units. 

Hostels, boarding 
houses 

Parking for residents 
  1 space per 10 residents. 

Parking for employees or caretakers 
  1 space per 2 employees or caretakers. 

107 

  These rates are the 

minimum and 
maximum 
requirements. 

  For the purposes of 
calculating visitors 
parking, a studio or 
bedsitter unit is 
counted as half a 
unit. 

  See P2 in Section 
3.7.2 in relation to 
Visitors Parking in 
the B4 Mixed Use 
zone. 

  All parking must be 
provided on site. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seniors housing 

Group homes 

Home-based child 
care 

  Refer to parking requirements specified in 
State Environmental Planning Policy – 
Housing for Seniors or People with 
Disability 2004. 

  Refer to parking requirements specified in 

State Environmental Planning Policy 
(Affordable Rental Housing) 2009. 

  As per requirements for dwelling houses, 

attached dwellings, semi-detached 
dwellings, secondary dwellings, dual 
occupancies, as applicable. 

  Plus 1 space and access and turning 

facilities for short-stay set-down and pick-
up of children. 

Home industries 

  As per requirements for dwelling houses, 

attached dwellings, semi-detached 
dwellings, secondary dwellings, dual 
occupancies. 

  Plus 1 space for employees not resident on 

site. 

  All parking must be 
provided on site. 

  All parking must be 
provided on site. 

Home occupations 

  As per requirements for dwelling houses, 

attached dwellings, semi-detached 
dwellings, secondary dwellings, dual 
occupancies. 

  All parking must be 
provided on site. 

Tourist and Visitor Accommodation Category and Related 

  1 space per accommodation unit. 
  2 spaces for employees involved in the 
Tourist and visitor accommodation 
business. 

  All parking must be 
provided on site. 

Backpackers’ 
accommodation 

Bed and breakfast 
accommodation 

Hotel or motel 
accommodation 

Serviced apartments 

Other not defined 

108 

 
 
 
Commercial Premises Category and Related 

Office premises 

Business premises 

On land zoned B4 Mixed Use in the BTC 
  Commercial Core and Middle Ring Areas 
­  1 space for the first 400 sqm or part 

thereof, plus 

­  1 space per 120 sqm or part thereof 
additional to the first 400 sqm. Up to 
20% of this can be regarded as parking 
for visitors to the office or business 
premises (Visitors Parking).  

  In Perimeter and Transition Areas  

­ 

­  1 space for the first 400 sqm or part 

thereof, plus 
 1 space per 80 sqm or part thereof 
additional to the first 400 sqm. Up to 
20% of this can be regarded as parking 
for visitors to the office or business 
premises (Visitors Parking). 

On other land zoned B4 Mixed Use 
  As per the requirements for Perimeter and 

Transition Areas above. 

On land zoned B2 Local Centre, B1 
Neighbourhood Centre and B6 Enterprise 
Corridor 
  1 space per 50 sqm. 

Retail Premises Subgroup and Related 

  1 spaces per 33 sqm.  

Bulky good premises 
garden centres 
hardware and 
building supplies 
landscaping material 
supplies markets 
plant nurseries 
roadside stalls Rural 
supplies timberyards 
wholesale supplies 
Pubs registered clubs    1 space per 5 sqm of bar, lounge, dining, 

auditorium or entertainment area. 

Restaurants or cafés 
other food and drink 
premises not defined 

On land zoned B4 Mixed Use 

­  1 space for the first 400 sqm or part 

thereof, plus 

­  1 space per 40 sqm or part thereof 
additional to the first 400 sqm. 

In all other business zones  

­  1 space per 40 sqm or part thereof. 

109 

  These rates are the 

minimum and 
maximum 
requirements. 

  The BTC is defined 
on the BLEP 2012 
Burwood Town 
Centre Map.  

  The BTC Areas are 
defined on Figure 3 
of this DCP.  

  The provisions of P2 
in Section 3.7.2 in 
relation to Visitors 
Parking in the B4 
Mixed Use zone may 
apply to these land 
uses. 

  All parking to be 
provided on site. 

  This is the minimum 

and maximum 
requirement. 

  The provisions of P2 
in Section 3.7.2 in 
relation to Visitors 
Parking in the B4 
Mixed Use zone may 
apply to these land 
uses. 

•  All parking to be 
provided on site. 

 
 
 
 
Takeaway food and 
drink premises 

  1 space per 3 seats (internal and external 

  All parking to be 

to the building). 

provided on site. 

Kiosks 

Service stations 

  Adequate provision for queuing of vehicles. 

No parking requirement. 
  6 spaces per work bay plus 
  1 spaces per 20 sqm or part thereof of 

shop or food and drink premises included 
on site. 

  All parking to be 
provided on site. 

Sex services 
premises 

  2 spaces per sex worker and  
  1 space per non-sex worker (e.g. manager 

  All parking to be 
provided on site. 

Veterinary hospitals 

  4 spaces per veterinary care professional 

and security). 

Shops amusement 
centres industrial 
retail outlets other 
retail premises not 
defined  

Neighbourhood 
shops 

Vehicle hire or sales 
premises 

Entertainment 
facilities function 
centres  

being 1 space for the health care 
professional, 1 space for an employee and 
2 spaces for attendee animal owners. 

On land zoned B4 Mixed Use 
  1 space for the first 400 sqm or part thereof, 

plus 

  1 space per 40 sqm or part thereof 

additional to the first 400 sqm. All of this 
can be regarded as parking for visitors to 
the premises (Visitors Parking). 

In all other business zones:  
  1 space per 40 sqm or part thereof. 
  1 space per 50 sqm in all zones. 
  Except in the B6 Enterprise Corridor zone 

– no parking required. 

  As for Business premises in zone. 

  As determined by Council having regard to 
a Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact 
Report and Management Plan, or a 
Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact 
Report, as applicable. 

Industry, Storage and Related 

Light industries (any 
kind) 

Vehicle body repair 
workshops 

Vehicle repair 
stations 

  1 space per 100 sqm. 

  1 space per 50 sq m. 

  6 spaces per work bay. 

Self storage units 

  1 space per 10 storage units. 

Warehouse or 
distribution centres 

  1 space per 100 sqm or 1 space per 2 

staff, whichever is the greater. 

Transport Category and Related 

  All parking to be 
provided on site. 

  The provisions of P2 
in Section 3.7.2 in 
relation to Visitors 
Parking in the B4 
Mixed Use zone may 
apply to these land 
uses. 

  All parking to be 
provided on site. 

  All parking must be 
provided on site. 
  The provisions of P2 
in Section 3.7.2 in 
relation to Visitors 
Parking in the B4 
Mixed Use zone may 
apply to these land 
uses. 

  All parking must be 
provided on site. 

Freight transport 
facilities 

Passenger transport 
facilities 

Transport depots 

Truck depots 

  As determined by Council having regard to 
a Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact 
Report and Management Plan, or a 
Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact 
Report, as applicable. 

  Council may obtain a 
peer review of the 
Report at the 
applicant’s expense. 

  All parking must be 
provided on site. 

110 

 
 
 
 
 
Community Category and Related 

Educational 
establishments 

  For primary and secondary schools - 1 

space per classroom. 

  All  parking  must  be 
provided on site. 

Child care centres 

Industrial training 
facilities 

Community facilities 
information and 
education facilities 
Places 
worship 

of 

public 

  For tertiary establishments in Business 
zones – as for Business premises in the 
zone. 

  For tertiary establishments in other zones  
­  Where the site is within 400m of a rail 

station, as for Business premises in the 
Business zone adjacent to the station. 
­  Where the site is more than 400m from 
a rail station, 1 space per full time 
equivalent employee and 1 space per 
10 students. 

  As determined case-by-case on the basis 
of a Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact 
Report and Management Plan prepared by 
the applicant, taking into account the 
following guidelines. 

  1 space per staff member. 
  Adequate access and turning facilities for 

short-stay set-down and pick-up of 
children, based on 1 space per 4 licensed 
children. 

  Where the site is within 400m of a rail 

station, as for Business premises in the 
Business zone adjacent to the station. 
  Where the site is more than 400m from a 

rail station, 1 space per full time equivalent 
employee and 1 space per 10 students. 
  As  determined  by  Council’s  Management 

Plan for the specific facility. 

  All parking must be 
provided on site. 

  All parking must be 
provided on site. 

  1 space per 10 seats where fixed seating is 

provided. 

  1 space per 18 sqm where fixed seating is 

not provided. 

  These  rates  are  the 
and 

minimum 
maximum 
requirements. 

  The  provisions  of  P2 
in  Section  3.7.2  in 
to  Visitors 
relation 
Parking 
the  B4 
in 
Mixed Use zone may 
land 
apply 
use. 

this 

to 

Public administration 
buildings 

Respite day care 
centres 

  As for Business premises in the zone. 

  1 space per 4 persons of maximum 

capacity. 

  Access and turning facilities for short-stay 

set-down and pick-up of attendees. 

  All  parking  must  be 
provided on site. 

  All  parking 

to  be 

provided on site. 

Recreation areas 
and Recreation 
facilities (indoor) 

  As determined case-by-case on the basis 
of a Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact 
Report and Management Plan prepared by 
the applicant. 

  Council may obtain a 
peer review of the 
Report at the 
applicant’s expense. 

Mortuaries 

  As for Business premises in the zone 

111 

  All parking must be 
provided on site. 
  All parking must be 
provided on site. 

 
 
Health Services Facilities Subgroup 

Health consulting 
rooms 
medical centres 

  4 spaces per health care professional 

(doctor, dentist or other) being 1 space for 
the health care professional, 1 space for an 
employee and 2 spaces for patients.  

  All parking must be 
provided on site. 

Hospitals 

Miscellaneous  

Any land use or 
activity not covered 
by any of the above 

  As determined by Council having regard to 
a Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact 
Report and Management Plan, or a 
Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact 
Report, as applicable prepared by the 
applicant. 

  Council may obtain a 
peer review of the 
Report at the 
applicant’s expense. 

  All parking must be 
provided on site. 

  As determined by Council having regard to 
a Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact 
Report and Management Plan, or a 
Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact 
Report, as applicable. 

Mixed uses 

  As determined from this Table for the 

requirements of the individual land uses 
involved. 

112 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.8 

Heritage in Centres and Corridors  

Introduction 

This  section  applies  to  the  development  of  heritage  items  (including  potential  or  draft 
heritage items), properties in a Heritage Conservation Area, and development in the vicinity 
of a heritage item or conservation area, where the developable property or heritage property 
is located in a Centre or Corridor.  

A  reference  to  ‘heritage  property’  herein  means  a  property  containing  a  heritage  item, 
potential  or  draft  heritage  item,  or  a  property  within  a  Heritage  Conservation  Area  (HCA). 
Heritage items and HCAs are listed in Schedule 5 of the BLEP 2012. 

Where  a  development  involves  residential  development,  the  heritage  controls  under  Part 4 
may also be applied. 

Advisory Note:  
Section 4.7.4.2 contains additional controls applying to The Strand shopping centre, which lies within the Malvern 
Hill Conservation Area. 

Objectives and Provisions 

The  development  of  a  heritage  property  or  its  setting  must  have  regard  to  the  character, 
appearance and significance of that item or place.  

Demolition  of  heritage  properties  or  removal  of  important  components  which  contribute  to 
their  heritage  significance  will  only  be  considered  when  supported  by  a  detailed  Heritage 
Impact Statement (HIS) or Conservation Management Plan (CMP).  

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

O3 

To  support  the  retention  of  heritage  properties  and  maintain  their  heritage 
significance. 

To ensure that alterations or additions to heritage properties are sympathetic to the 
heritage significance of the property and in keeping with its character.  

To ensure that development located in the vicinity of a heritage item is designed and 
sited  in  a  manner  sympathetic  to  the  significance  of  the  heritage  property  and  its 
setting.  

O4 

To facilitate adaptive re-use of heritage properties where such a use would contribute 
to the ongoing maintenance and viability of that item or place. 

Provisions 

General Provisions 

P1 

Development Applications that propose works to, or demolition of, a heritage property 
are  required  to  submit  a  heritage  report,  known  as  a  Heritage  Impact  Statement 
(HIS),  prepared  by  a  qualified  and  recognised  heritage  professional  as  part  of  the 
application  to  Council.  This  report  shall  detail  the  impacts  of  the  proposed 
development  on  the  heritage  significance  of  the  property.  Council  may,  at  its 
discretion, require a Conservation Management Plan (CMP), instead of a HIS. 

P2   Where substantial demolition is proposed, the HIS is required to provide justification 
on  heritage  grounds  and  demonstrate  that  options  for  retention  have  been 
investigated.  An  assessment  of  significance  must  include  a  comparative  analysis  of 

113 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  building  in  relation  to  others  of  its  kind  in  the  local  area.  Claims  concerning 
physical  condition  are  required  to  be  supported  by  a  Structural  Engineer’s  report. 
Conclusions should be based upon the heritage significance of the property, not on 
the development potential of the land it is situated upon. 

P3 

P4 

Council will require the submission of a heritage statement, prepared in accordance 
with  the  NSW  Heritage  Branch  guideline  Statements  of  Heritage  Impact,  where 
development is proposed adjacent to a heritage property. 

Major re-development of a heritage property shall have regard to the NSW Heritage 
Branch’s  Design  in  Context:  Guidelines  for  Infill  Development  in  the  Historic 
Environment. 

Building Design Considerations 

P5 

P6 

Development of a heritage property must: 
   
Provide a use that is compatible with its heritage significance. 
Be sympathetic in terms of its design, bulk, scale and character.  
Adopt  materials/finishes,  form,  proportions  and  detailing  that  responds  to  the 
traditional style of the heritage property. 
Provide  adequate  setbacks  around  the  heritage  property  to  ensure  the 
maintenance of its historic setting and facilitate interpretation.  

 
Development in the vicinity of a heritage property must be designed to have regard to 
the heritage property’s:  
    
Scale and character.  
Form and proportions. 
Materials, colours and finishes. 
Street alignment and established setbacks in the surrounding area.  

P7  Where a heritage property features a freestanding, heritage-significant building (e.g. 
house, church, terrace row), any development having three storeys or more which is 
contiguous to that heritage property will generally be expected to observe a 5 metre 
minimum  setback  from  the  heritage  property’s  boundary  (and  4  metre  minimum 
setback for any below-ground excavation/basement). 

P8 

Development  or  adaptive  re-use  of  a  heritage  property  should  seek  to  retain 
significant  external  and  internal  fabric.  In  particular,  those  public  and  community 
buildings  (e.g.  churches,  schools,  hospitals,  community  halls),  pubs  and  hotels,  or 
other buildings with high public visitation. 

For  example,  significant  external  design  details  may  include  wall  tiles,  historic 
advertising,  pressed  metal  awning  soffits,  balconies,  doors  and  joinery.  Significant 
internal  design  details  may  include  staircases,  plasterwork,  joinery  or  fittings.  The 
spatial qualities of a building will sometimes also be important.  

P9  

Development  should  retain  sufficient  evidence  of  the  significant  internal  layout  to 
enable interpretation. Retaining evidence of former room layouts can be achieved by 
retaining  evidence  of  the  cellular  pattern  through  joinery,  ceilings,  nibs  and 
bulkheads. 

Incorporating Heritage Items into New Development 

P10  Where  a  larger  development  proposes  to  incorporate  a  heritage  item  or  significant 

place, the design must include appropriate measures to: 

 
Retain  an  appropriate  setting  to  allow  for  the  continued  appreciation  and 
integrity of the heritage item. 

114 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ensure  the  heritage  item  is  not  visually  obscured  or  adversely  altered, 
particularly regarding sight lines from the public domain.  

P11  Where a development involves subdivision, Council will generally require that repair 
or  restorative  work  to  the  heritage  property  is  undertaken  prior  to  the  subdivision. 
This  approach  seeks  to  ensure  that  the  conservation  of  the  heritage  property  is 
integral to the redevelopment.  

3.8.4   Sight Lines 

P12  Development  adjacent  to  a  heritage  property  must  incorporate  front  and/or  side 
setbacks  to  achieve  sight  lines  to  the  significant  building  in  accordance  with  Figure 
22.  More  generous  setbacks  may  be  required  to  achieve  views  and  vistas,  see 
Section 3.8.5 below. The front alignment of a new development must be sympathetic 
to the heritage property. 

Figure 22: Minimum Setbacks for Development Adjacent to a Heritage Item or Heritage 
Conservation Area 

3.8.5   Views and Vistas 

P13  Development of a heritage property, or development in its vicinity, must:  

 
 
 
Provide  an  adequate  area  of 
land  around 
interpretation of the significant building or place. 

the  development 

to  allow 

Not detract from the setting of the heritage property. 

Retain and respect significant views/vistas from the public domain to a heritage 
property, as well as the views/vistas originating from the heritage property itself.  

115 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.8.6  Terrace Buildings 

P14  Development within a terrace group is to be designed with strict regard to the overall 
group  in  terms  of  height,  alignment,  form,  scale,  materials  and  architectural 
character.  

3.8.7  Adaptive Re-Use 

P15  The  adaptive  re-use  of  heritage  properties  is  generally  supported  where  Council  is 
satisfied that such a use would contribute to the ongoing maintenance and viability of 
that item or place. 

P16  Adaptive  re-use  shall  require  that  particular  attention  be  given  to  original  interior 
features of a building and the original layout of rooms, particularly where that building 
is proposed to be used for a business purpose and there would be some degree of 
public visitation. 

P17  Where  a  development  relies  on  the  conservation  incentive  provisions  under  clause 
5.10  (10)  of  the  BLEP  2012,  consideration  will  be  given  to  the  extent  of  alteration 
proposed  and  operation  matters  in  respect  to  that  use,  such  as  the  location  of 
parking. A CMP is required in proposals which rely on the incentive provisions.  

3.8.8  Signage, Visual Presentation and Colour Schemes 

P18  Signage  proposed  upon  historic  facades  or  exteriors  shall  not  obscure  significant 
architectural elements, nor detract from the character of the heritage property.  

P19  Signage shall be restricted upon historic facades. Where applicable, the signs should 
occupy the areas upon a building traditionally reserved for signage, such as the top 
hamper  or  awning  fascia.  Signage  should  be  addressed  as  an  overall  scheme  to 
avoid the accumulation of signs over time. 

P20  Projecting signs are not permitted upon heritage properties. 

P21  Roller shutters, security bars or similar devices shall not be permitted upon a heritage 
property  as  these  obscure  significant  architectural  elements  and  detract  from  the 
character of buildings. In general, sympathetic alternatives can be found to address 
the  security  of  business/office/retail  premises,  such  as  anti-theft  glass  and  internal 
locks. 

P22  Redevelopment shall be taken as an opportunity to remove unsympathetic work upon 
a  heritage  property,  such  as  air  conditioning  units  above  shop  awnings,  or  earlier 
signage. Redevelopment should also be used to reinstate lost building elements. 

P23  Exterior stonework and face brickwork of a heritage property shall not be painted or 
otherwise  obscured.  The  cement  rendering  of  masonry  exteriors  is  generally  not 
supported on heritage grounds. 

P24  Original and early landscaping that includes plantings with direct links or association 

to the heritage property must be retained. 

P25  New colour schemes should reflect the most significant design period of the heritage 
property.  Corporate  colours  will  not  be  permitted  to  dominate  the  architectural 
elements of a building or obscure building features. 

P26  New  colour  schemes  for  a  building  in  the  vicinity  of  a  heritage  property  must  not 

detract from the setting of the heritage property. 

116 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.9 

Public Domain and Amenity  

Overview 

In  each  of  Burwood’s  centres  and  corridors,  Council  aims  to  develop  high  quality  public 
spaces,  improve  the  public  domain  and  pedestrian  linkages  between  activity  areas,  and 
facilitate active streets for shopping, business and recreation. 

Aims 

  To establish positive public images for the centres and corridors 

  To integrate the residential and commercial characters of the Town and Local Centres 

  To encourage active streets within the centre’s main shopping and business precincts 

  To integrate building street front setback areas with the function and character of streets 

  To provide safe and pedestrian friendly environments in streets and laneways including 

for people with a mobility impairment  

  To  improve  pedestrian  linkages,  and  create  meeting  places  and  focal  points  for 

community activities in the Town Centres 

  To enhance the pedestrian and visual amenity of the streetscapes 

  To maximise solar access to major public open space. 

3.9.1 

 Public Domain - Burwood Town Centre 

The  overall  public  domain  strategy  for  the  BTC  is  illustrated  in  Figure  23.  It  shows  the 
interrelationships between the various public domain and amenity provisions and the goals 
that Council is seeking to achieve in the long-term. 

Advisory Note:  
Areas may be in private ownership but are used by the general public, thereby also considered as public domain. 

117 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 23: Public Domain Strategy – Burwood Town Centre 

118 

 
 
3.9.2 

 Public Squares and Forecourts 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

O3 

To provide public squares and forecourts that are safe, accessible, comfortable and 
active for day and night use.  

To separate pedestrian and vehicular movements. 

To provide for a variety of passive and active uses. 

Provisions 

Advisory Note: 
Figure 23 indicates the general location of existing and proposed public squares and forecourts within the BTC. 

P1 

P2 

P3 

The ground levels of developments that are adjacent to/have frontage to designated 
public squares and forecourts must provide active uses which address and define the 
edges  of  the  squares  and  forecourts,  and  upper  levels  must  enable  casual 
surveillance.  

Developments must provide access to designated public squares and forecourts that 
is suitable for people with mobility impairment. 

The squares and forecourts must be unobstructed by buildings, open to the sky and 
have direct and physical linkages into and through the squares and forecourts. 

Figure 24: Seating and Furniture in a Public Square 

119 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 25: Proposed Public Squares and Forecourts 

120 

 
 
3.9.3 

 Pedestrian Links 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

O3 

To  improve  the  pedestrian  network  in  the  BTC  by  providing  well-located,  safe  and 
attractive pedestrian links between existing streets. 

To increase the permeability of the pedestrian network by providing pedestrian links 
through private development. 

To  maintain  an  open  character  in  the  pedestrian  link,  ensure  sufficient  building 
separation and provide adequate solar access. 

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

Existing pedestrian links must be retained or replaced. 

New pedestrian links are to be provided in the indicative locations illustrated in Figure 
26.  A  pedestrian  link  can  be  in  the  form  of  an  arcade  or  a  pathway.  The  exact 
location  and  form  of  a  pedestrian  link  in  each  case  will  be  determined  as  part  of 
detailed development planning. 

P3 

Existing  and  new  pedestrian  links  should  complement  and  link  with  each  other  to 
improve the pedestrian network. 

P4 

Any pedestrian link must: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Have interactive uses and provide casual visual surveillance. 

Be obvious and direct through-ways for pedestrians. 

Minimise barriers to mobility through the link. 

In  the  case  of  an  arcade,  provide  public  access  from  at  least  6am  to  10pm 
daily.  If  it  is  a  pathway,  provide  and  maintain  uncontrolled  (no gates,  doors  or 
the like) public access at all times (24 hours a day, 7 days a week). 

Have  a  minimum  width  of  4.5  metres,  clear  of  all  obstructions  and  where 
possible  a  width  of  6  metres  (except  for  the  pedestrian  link  between  Hornsey 
Street and Clarendon Place). 

Have signage at the street entries indicating public accessibility and the name 
of the street to which the connection links. 

121 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 26: Pedestrian Links in Burwood Town Centre 

Pedestrian Link between Hornsey Street and Clarendon Place 

P5 

This pedestrian link must: 

  Have a minimum width of 9 metres  

  Be unobstructed by buildings and open to the sky for all of its width except where 
consent is given to the provision of awnings cantilevered from buildings located on 
land fronting the pedestrian link, and such awnings must not encroach on the width 
by more than 30%. 

122 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Be activated by entrances to retail, office and residential uses. 

  Minimise barriers to mobility through the link including through compliance with AS 
1428.1-2009 – Design for access and mobility - General requirements for access - 
New building work. 

  Have  clearly  identifiable access  points  that  interact  with  the  active  edges  of retail 

and business uses at ground level. 

  Be  landscaped  in  accordance  with  Council’s  Public  Domain  Plans  as  amended, 

and be of species selected from Council’s Street Tree Management Strategy. 

P6 

Passive  surveillance  from  the  upper  levels  of  balconies  and  living  areas  must  be 
provided. 

P7  Where any outdoor retail activity is proposed, the shopfront must be setback from the 

pedestrian link, as shown in the Figure 27. 

Figure 27: Setbacks for the Hornsey Street – Clarendon Place Pedestrian Link 

123 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.9.4  Lanes 

Objectives 

O1 

To retain and develop lanes as useful and interesting pedestrian connections as well 
as for service access. 

Provisions 

P1 

Existing lanes in the BTC should be retained (refer Figure 28). 

P2  Where  development  has  a  frontage  to  a  lane  that  is  also  a  pedestrian  route,  the 
environment  of  the  lane  must  be  improved  by  providing  design  details  that  create 
visual interest and improve public safety and amenity. 

Figure 28: Location of Lanes within the Burwood Town Centre 

124 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.9.5 

 Treatment of Street Front Setbacks 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To improve the relationship between the public domain and development on private 
land. 

To  facilitate  improved  pedestrian  movement,  activities  and  access  in  the  public 
domain. 

Provisions 

P1 

In  the  Commercial  Core  and  Middle  Ring  Areas,  where  a  street  front  setback  of 
development is required in Figure 6, the setback area is to be treated and upgraded 
in  a  manner  consistent  with  the  requirements  for  the  public  domain  immediately  in 
front of the development. A right of pedestrian and vehicle movement by way of an 
easement in Council’s favour in accordance with a Section 88B Instrument under the 
Conveyancing Act 1919 over the setback area is to be placed on the title of the land. 

P2 

In  the  Perimeter  and  Transition  Areas,  where  a  street  front  setback  is  required  in 
Figure 10: 

  Where  the  development  is  wholly  for  residential  purposes,  the  setback  area 
remains  part  of  the common  property  of  the  residential  development  and  is  to 
be landscaped and maintained accordingly. 

  Where the  development  is for mixed  use  or  non-residential  purposes  at street 
level,  and  the  setback  is  3m  or  more,  the  setback  area  is  to  be  treated  and 
upgraded  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the  requirements  for  the  public  domain 
immediately  in  front  of  the  development.  A  right  of  pedestrian  and  vehicle 
movement  by  way  of  an  easement  in  Council’s  favour  in  accordance  with  a 
Section  88B  Instrument  under  the  Conveyancing  Act  1919  over  the  setback 
area is to be placed on the title of the land.  

P3  Where  a  street  front  setback  is  required  and  the  development  is  for  non-residential 
purposes at ground level, the provision of cantilevered awnings over the setback area 
is encouraged.  

3.9.6 

 Public Domain Finishes and Elements within Development 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To  ensure  that  there  is  a  high  quality  public  domain  through  coordinating  designed 
elements.  

To  ensure  that  development  provides  for  high  quality  public  domain  elements  and 
finishes. 

Provisions 

P1 

Appropriate  lighting  must  be  provided  in  publicly  accessible  areas  of  development 
that  responds  to  a  range  of  environmental  factors  such  as  location,  scale  and 
streetscape,  to  highlight  architectural  features,  incorporate  banners  and  art.  These 
must  be  cost  effective  in  power  usage  and  maintenance.  Solar  powered  lighting 
options are encouraged.  

125 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P2  Where  publicly  accessible  areas  are  provided  within  a  development,  all  elements 
including  paving,  street  furniture,  planting,  fences,  kerbs  and  drainage  must  be 
provided  to  a  standard  not  less  than  would  be  required  in  Council’s  Public  Works 
Elements Manual (Final Draft June 2006). 

3.9.7   Solar Access to Burwood Park 

Objective 

O1 

To ensure that there is adequate solar access to Burwood Park 

Provision 

P1 

Development  must  not  cast  shadows  over  Burwood  Park  between  10.00am  and 
2.00pm on 21 June. 

3.9.8 

 Acquisition of Land for Traffic Management and Open Space 

This section deals with Council’s strategy to acquire certain land in the BTC to improve traffic 
management and public open space provision. Council’s acquisition strategy is additional to 
the inclusion of parcels of land in the Land Reservation Acquisition Map of the BLEP 2012.  

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

O3 

To ensure the proper management of traffic on roads in the BTC as the Centre grows 
and develops by acquiring additional land for road widening. 

To ensure the provision of additional open space in the BTC to cater for growth in the 
resident population, workforce and visitors to the Centre 

To  acquire  the  land  for  this  purpose  through  negotiation  with  the  land  owner  at  an 
opportune time to be agreed between the landowner and Council. 

Provisions 

P1 

The following parcels of land that are indicated by designation on Figure 29 are part 
of an acquisition strategy by Council for the purpose indicated: 

    
 
A, being part of Lot C in DP 411585 (47-47A Burwood Road) - road widening. 
C, being part of Lot 1 in DP 198 (118-120 Burwood Road) - road widening. 
F, being Lot 1 in DP 102952 (currently pedestrian walkway) - road widening. 
G, being Lot 1 in DP 330221 and Lot 1 in DP 71397 (49-51 Burwood Road) - 
road widening. 
H, being Lot 2 in DP 222750 (168 Burwood Road) - local public open space. 

P2 

The land parcels will be acquired at an opportune time agreed by both the landowner 
and Council, such as purchase by Council when a property is placed on the market, 
or via an agreement for dedication of the land to Council as part of a redevelopment 
application. 

126 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 29: Land Reservations for Acquisition in Burwood Town Centre 

127 

 
 
3.9.9   Access and Mobility for the Public Domain 

Objective 

O1 

To ensure the public domain is designed and constructed to facilitate access by the 
community including those with mobility impairment. 

Provisions 

P1 

The  public  domain  surrounding  and/or  immediately  adjacent  to  any  development 
proposal must be upgraded to Council’s current standards at the applicant’s cost.  

P2  Wherever a pedestrian way meets a roadway which facilitates pedestrians traversing 
the  roadway,  laybacks  in  the  kerb  must  be  provided  at  suitable  gradients  to  allow 
access for persons with mobility impairment. 

P3 

Tactile  indicators  must  be  provided  on  the  ground  immediately  adjacent  to  the 
approach  and  departure  sides  of  any  changes  in  floor  levels  in  the  public  domain 
which  incorporate  a  step,  ramp,  stepped  ramp  or  the  like  in  accordance  with  AS 
1428.4. 

Further Reference: 

Refer to Australian Standards 1428.1,2,3 and 4, Design for access and mobility as relevant for further information 
on ramps and tactile surface indicators. 

Other Centres 

Advisory Note:  
This subsection does not apply to the Parramatta Road B6 Corridor. 

Objectives 

O1 

To improve the quality and function of the public domain of streets in the Centre 

Provisions 

P1 

Ensure provision of continuous awnings in streets where the 0m street front setback 
applies 

Advisory Note:  
Awnings are to comply with provisions of Section 3.2.20 - Awnings in Centres and Corridors. 

P2 

P3 

Appropriate  lighting  must  be  provided  in  publicly  accessible  areas  of  development 
that  responds  to  a  range  of  environmental  factors  such  as  location,  scale  and 
streetscape,  to  highlight  architectural  features,  incorporate  banners  and  art.  These 
must  be  cost  effective  in  power  usage  and  maintenance.  Solar  powered  lighting 
options are encouraged.  

Establishment of new “through-site” pedestrian routes where a development 
comprising commercial floor space at ground level has frontage to parallel streets will 
be considered by Council as part of the planning and application assessment process 
for major sites 

P4  Where pedestrian links are provided or where development has frontage to existing 

public laneways the provisions of Section 3.9.3 and 3.9.4 will generally apply and the 
design of the development must demonstrate adequate compliance with these 
provisions 

128 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P5 

The development of sites with frontage to The Boulevarde that also have frontage to 
a rear lane or right of way is to provide for all service and parking access from the 
rear lane or right of way. 

P6  Where  publicly  accessible  areas  are  provided  within  a  commercial  development  at 
ground  level,  all  elements  including  paving,  street  furniture,  planting,  fences,  kerbs 
and  drainage  must  be  provided  to  a  standard  not  less  than  would  be  required  in 
Council’s Public Works Elements Manual (Final Draft June 2006). 

P7  Where  a  street  front  setback  is  required  and  the  development  is  for  non-residential 
purposes at ground level, the provision of cantilevered awnings over the setback area 
is encouraged. Such awnings must not extend more than 3m from the front facade of 
the setback building or beyond the street front boundary of the development site. 

129 

 
 
4  Development in Residential Areas 

4.1 

Residential Flat Buildings in R1 Zone 

4.1.1  

Introduction  

This  section  applies  to  residential  flat  buildings  that  are  permitted  with  consent  in  the  R1 
General  Residential  zone  in  the  BLEP  2012.  A  residential  flat  building  means  a  building 
containing  three  or  more  dwellings,  but  does  not  include  an  attached  dwelling  or  multi 
dwelling  housing.  The  development  standards  applying  to  land  in  the  R1  zone  permit 
different scales of residential flat buildings in different locations. 

The provisions of State Environmental Planning Policy No. 65 - Design Quality of Residential 
Apartment  Development  (SEPP  65)  and the  accompanying  ADG  will  apply.  As  well  as  this 
DCP  section,  applicants  should  have  regard  to  these  documents  when  preparing  their 
development  proposal.  In  the  event  of  an  inconsistency  between  the  ADG  and  a  provision 
within this DCP, the DCP will prevail to the extent of that inconsistency.  

Some shop top housing (defined as one or more dwellings located above ground floor retail 
premises or business premises) in residential zones will be assessed in the same manner as 
residential flat buildings. This is outlined in Section 4.2 below.  

Appendix  3  of  the  ADG  specifies  the  submission  requirements  that  Council  will  apply  for 
residential  flat  buildings.  A  Registered  Architect  must  design  a  residential  flat  building. 
Before  determining  an  application,  Council  may  obtain  independent  advice  on  the  design 
quality of the residential flat building relative to the principles outlined in SEPP 65, and also 
the provisions within the ADG and this section of the DCP. 

The provisions within this section of the DCP address the three key aspects of planning and 
design for residential flat development and shop top housing being: 

 
 
 
Site  Planning  –  how  buildings  responds  to  the  site,  neighbours  and  streetscape  with 
provisions creating a basic building envelope. 

Building  Design–the  aesthetic  and  functionality  of  building  facades  with  provisions 
refining the building envelope. 

Site  and  Building  Amenity–provisions  for  internal  and  external  building  amenity  with 
provisions addressing the finer details of the building.   

4.1.2 

 Development Controls  

4.1.2.1 Site Planning 

Objectives  
O1  To  ensure  new  development  responds  to  its  context  (e.g.  streetscape  and  adjoining 

properties) and site elements (e.g. landscaping and services). 

O2  To ensure new development provides appropriate levels of amenity for the private and 

public domain.  

O3  To  ensure  the  street  setback  enhances  the  setting  of  the  building,  and  that  side  and 
rear  setbacks  create  usable  land  for  landscaping  and  maintain  amenity  between 
neighbouring sites.  

O4  To encourage the efficient use of land. 

130 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Provisions  

Height and Floor Space Ratio 

P1  The development standards in the BLEP 2012 apply.  

Setbacks 

P2  The front setback of a building is to be a minimum of 6m. 

P3   Side and rear setbacks must comply with the following numerical standards:  

Building Component 
Ground floor 
First floor 
Second floor 
Third floor and above 

Minimum Setback from Side and Rear Boundaries  
2.0 metres 
3.5 metres 
5.0 metres and comply with ADG building separation requirements  
1.0 metres additional per floor above second floor and comply with ADG 
building separation requirements  

P3A  Notwithstanding  P3,  where  a  side  or  rear  boundary  is  contiguous  with  a  heritage 
property the minimum setback is 5m for the building at or above ground level, and 4m 
for  any  underground  excavation,  irrespective  of  the  setback  of  the  heritage  building 
from  its  boundary  or  landscaping  of  that  setback.  Fire  stairs  pump  rooms  or  similar 
structures are not permitted in the setback area.  

Development of a residential flat building adjacent to a heritage item should also have 
regard to the character of the heritage property, such as responding to its landscaping, 
front fence, character, generous setbacks, open front yard, and the like. 

P4  Setback  areas  must  be  free  of  projections  or  encroachments,  except  for  at-grade 
the  amenity  and  privacy  of  adjoining  properties  and 

to  protect 

landscaping, 
streetscape.  

Length of Building Facades  

P5  The maximum frontage length of a building facing a street is 45 metres. 

P6  The  side  façades  of  buildings  are  to  include  articulation  elements  at  least  every  10 

metres. 

P7  Breaks between buildings are to be aligned with streets, lanes or regional views where 

possible. 

Minimum Site Frontage  

P8  A residential flat building shall not be erected on an allotment of land having a frontage 

of less than 20 metres.  

P9  Site consolidation is encouraged to promote efficient use of land. 

Minimum Site Area 

P10   Any development with a height over 9 metres is generally required to have a minimum 

site area of 500 square metres. 

P11  Council will only consider a development with a minimum site area below 500 square 

metres where the Council is satisfied that: 

      The development demonstrates design excellence.  

131 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      The  development  provides  a  good  response  to  the  streetscape  and  surrounding 

development (in terms of both existing and future development). 

      The  development  provides  full  compliance  with  parking  requirements  without  the 

use of automated or mechanical car parking systems.  

Site Isolation  

P12  The  creation  of  isolated  sites  (i.e.  with  less  than  20  metre  frontage)  is  discouraged. 
Where an isolated site may result, the applicant for a development must demonstrate 
that negotiations between the owners of the property(s) commenced at an early stage 
that was prior to the lodgement of the Development Application. Where no satisfactory 
result  is  achieved,  the  Development  Application  must  indicate  that  negotiations 
included  genuine  offers  based  on  at  least  one  recent  independent  valuation  and 
included  reasonable  expenses  likely  to  be  incurred  by  the  owners  in  the  sale  of  the 
property(s). 

P13  Where a development may result in the creation of an isolated site the applicant must 
demonstrate that orderly and economic use and development of the separate sites can 
be  achieved  that  is  consistent  with  the  planning  controls.  Such  demonstration  is 
achieved by the applicant providing a building envelope for that site, indicating height, 
setbacks,  resultant  site coverage  and/or  built  area  (building  and  basement),  sufficient 
to  understand  the  relationship  between  the  development  and  that  site,  the  likely 
impacts the developments will have on each other, impacts on solar access, visual and 
acoustic privacy, and the character of the streetscape, and traffic impacts if that site is 
on a main road.  

Building Design  

Objective 

O1  To  ensure  the  appearance  of  new  development  defines  and  enhances  the  public 
domain  through  modulation,  articulation,  materials,  use  of  superior  external  materials 
and  finishes,  active  ground  floor  uses  and  sensitivity  to  heritage  items  and 
conservation areas.  

Provisions  

Building Facades and General Guidelines 

P1  Each  street  façade  must  be  articulated  into  smaller  components  using  building 
elements (materials, floor slabs, balconies, window and door elements, roof forms and 
the like) at a scale or grain that reflects the use of the building and its components its 
location relative to public domain elements and has a clearly defined top, middle and 
bottom. 

P2  Predominant scale, rhythm and modulation of the existing streetscape are to be used 
as a baseline to break the new facade into smaller and finer elements. Vertical planes 
are encouraged over horizontal planes.  

P3  Façade modulation/ articulation should reflect the key datum lines of the adjacent 

heritage or local contributory items.  

P4  Uninterrupted blank wall is to be avoided in all visible parts of the façade from the 

public domain or adjacent neighbourhood. Blank wall should demonstrate visual 
interest through articulation and material integrated with the overall façade design.  

132 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Modulation and articulation of the blank wall to enhance the visual character of the building. 
Source: ADG, 4M 

P5  A simplified response to the BDCP required side and rear setbacks and separation 

distances is encouraged.  

P6  Front and rear façades are to include 60% - 70% windows and balconies of habitable 

rooms.  

P7  A  minimum  of  30%  -  50%  of  side  façades  should  include  windows  and  balconies  of 
habitable  rooms.  Where  building  separation  distances  are  less  than  the  ADG 
guidelines,  features  are  encouraged  to  redirect  views  to  avoid  adverse  privacy 
impacts.   

P8  A  minimum  of  70%  of  the  northern  façade  is  to  include  windows  and  balconies  of 

habitable rooms.  

P9  Horizontal  Shading  on  the  northern  façades  and  vertical  shading  for  eastern/western 

facades are encouraged to control heat gain and glare to the internal areas.  

P10  New developments on corner sites should orient to both street frontages.  

P11  Accentuate the corner’s unique location with architectural features that actively engage 

the public realm and create a visual presence at the corner, such as:  
­ 
­ 
­ 
­ 

Chamfered or rounded corners  
Different material and colours  
Recessed balconies or windows  
Vertical articulation/modulation  

P12  Corner entrances should address the two street frontages.  

133 

 
 
 
 
 
Changing the façade material, articulation or colour to highlight prominent corners. 
(Source: ADG, 4M) 

P13  Integrate building service elements, such as drainage pipes, grilles, screens, 

ventilation louvres and car park entry doors into the overall facade design.  

P14  A variety of architectural modulation, rhythm and fenestration is required to enhance 

the façades visual character.  

P15  Openings are to be recessed at a minimum of 100mm to add depth to the façade.  

P16  Recessed balconies are preferable to provide privacy, protection and depth to the 

façade.  

P17  Sliding louvred panels screening the balconies are encouraged to add visual privacy 

and control the solar access.  

P18  Residential flat buildings of 5 storeys and more should have a distinguished base, 

middle and top in their façade design. New buildings up to 4 storeys and below should 
have a distinguished base and top.  

P19  The pedestrian entries to buildings shall be readily apparent from the street, and that 
part of buildings adjacent to the public street shall have living room or kitchen windows 
facing the street.  

134 

 
 
 
 
Recessed openings add depth to the overall façade. (Source: GMU Library) 

Building Base 

P20  This  applies  within  the  first  1-2  storeys  of  the  residential  flat  buildings  with  5  storeys 

and more. 

P21  A clearly defined base is encouraged through the use of different materials, textures 

and articulation to reinforce the character of the public domain.  

Example of a clearly defined base, middle and top. (Source: Google) 

135 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P22  Differentiating building entrances is required through different materials, textures and 

articulation.  

P23  Service/parking entrances are to be integrated with the overall façade design using 

quality material and finishes.  

P24  Parking entrances are to be encapsulated within the front or side façades of the 

building and are to have a maximum length of 6m. Vehicle ramps located on side 
setbacks are strongly discouraged. Where proposed the ramp must be justified as the 
only viable design solution and include measures to minimise adverse impacts on 
adjoining development.   

P25  The base is to be integrated with the landscape character of the building. Using natural 

material such as brick and sandstone with recessive colour to blend the building with 
its natural context is encouraged.  

Building Middle 

P26  Façade segments are to be articulated with different façade planes, materials and 

textures every 10-15m.  

P27  Façade rhythm and articulation should reinforce the predominant scale of the adjacent 

developments.  

Roof Top and Roof Gardens 

P28  Roof design is to be integrated with the overall built form and respond to the 

predominant roof character of the surrounding neighbourhood. A roof termination or a 
distinctive roof design is encouraged.  

P29  Different façade expressions including articulation, material, parapet, colour and 

texture to differentiate the top level and roof are encouraged.  

Examples of the roof character integrated with the overall façade design. 
(Source: GMU Library, Google) 

P30  Visually recessive building tops to create greater aperture to the sky and reduce the 

perception of bulk and scale are encouraged.  

P31  Rooftop design should take into account potential views from surrounding taller 

buildings. Green roofs and roof gardens or patios will enhance rooftop appearance 
from surrounding buildings.  

P32  The design of the roof should respond to the orientation of the site, minimise the visual 
intrusiveness of service elements (which should be integrated with the roof design) and 
facilitate the use of the roof for communal open space. 

136 

 
 
 
 
P33  Residents  shall  have  access  to  rooftop  and  podium  gardens  wherever  possible.  At 

least 50% of the roof area shall be vegetated with grasses, shrubs and trees. 

P34  Planter  boxes  must  be  located  at  the  perimeter  of  rooftop  gardens  to  minimise 

overlooking of neighbouring dwellings. 

P35  Planting  containers  must  allow  sufficient  depth  and  volume,  growing  medium  and 

irrigation to support the mature size of plants. 

P36  All planting areas on structures must be designed by a suitably qualified engineer. 

Materials and Finishes  

BDCP  Section  3.2.2  also  applies  to  residential  apartment  buildings  in  the  R1  General 
Residential zone. 

Lighting and Signage  

BDCP  Section  3.2.3  also  applies  to  residential  apartment  buildings  in  the  R1  General 
Residential zone.  

Site and Building Amenity  

Objective  

O1  To ensure the design of internal and external amenities is functional and enhances the 

quality of the environment for occupants 

Provisions  

Private Open Space 

P1  Private open space may be in the form of courtyards, decks or balconies and is to be 

provided for every dwelling in a development. 

P2  Private open space is to have a northern aspect where practicable. 

P3  Private open space is to be directly accessible from the living area of the dwelling and 

capable of serving as an extension of the living area. 

P4  Planting  beds,  screen  walls  and  solid-walled  balconies  should  be  used  to  achieve  a 

high level of privacy for a dwellings private open space. 

Communal Open Space 

P5  A  minimum  of  25%  of  the  site  area  must  be  allocated  for  communal  open  space.  It 
must have a minimum dimension of 6 metres and 50% of communal open space must 
be unpaved soft landscaped area.  

P6  Communal  open  space  is  to  present  as  a  private  area  for  residents  only,  include 
passive surveillance from the adjacent living areas of dwellings and provide for active 
and passive recreation needs. 

P7  Communal open space may be in the form of roof areas and ground level and elevated 
gardens,  but  does  not  include  indoor  recreation  areas.  It  should  have  a  northerly 
aspect where practicable. 

P8  Communal open space must achieve visual and acoustic privacy, safety and security. 

P9  Communal open space must achieve good amenity in terms of natural airflow, outlook 
and solar access. At least 30% of the communal open space area is to achieve 2 hours 
of direct sunlight between 9.00am and 3.00pm on June 21.  

137 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Landscaping 

P10  A minimum of 10% of the site area is to be deep soil and have a minimum dimension of 

4 metres. 

P11  It  is  expected  that  25%  -  30%  of  the  site  be  landscaped  (inclusive  of  the  deep  soil 
zone). Landscaped area includes all pervious surfaces, open space at ground level and 
open space with a minimum dimension of 1 metre.   

P12 

Information on landscaping of the site prepared by a Landscape Architect or practicing 
Landscape Consultant shall be required as part of the development approval process. 

P13  The  requirements  of  Council’s  Landscaping  Code  shall  be  complied  with  for  the 

retention of existing trees and planting of new trees. 

P14  Any  residential  flat  building  with  a flat  roof  is  expected  to  provide  a  rooftop  garden  in 

accordance with Section 4.1.2.2 above. 

Solar Access and Natural Ventilation 

P15  DAs are to include diagrams in plan and elevation that shows sun access to proposed 
apartments  and  the  shadow  impact  on  neighbouring  dwellings  from  the  proposal  at 
9.00am, 12.00pm and 3.00pm on March 21 and June 21.  

P16  At least 70% of the living rooms and private open spaces of the proposed apartments 
and  neighbouring  developments  are  to  receive  a  minimum  of  3  hours  direct  sunlight 
between 9.00am and 3.00pm on June 21. 

P17  Where  the  neighbouring  development  currently  receives  less  than  3  hours  direct 
sunlight  to  living  areas/habitable  rooms  or  to  the  private  open  space  area,  any 
additional overshadowing is to be minimised.  

P18  Apartments  shall  be  naturally  cross-ventilated,  and  in  particular  kitchens  should  have 

access to natural ventilation. 

Figure 30: Solar Access and Insulation 

Visual Privacy 

P19  Provide  adequate  building  separation  in  accordance  with  the  building  separation 

requirements in the ADG.    

P20  Avoid  overlooking  to  and  from  private  open  space  and  the  main  habitable  areas  of 
dwellings  through  building  layout  and  location,  design  and  location  of  windows  and 
screening devices, balcony design and distance.  

138 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Acoustic Amenity 

P21  The  internal  layout  of  buildings  is  to  be  designed  to  reduce  the  effects  of  noise 

transmission through building materials and locating noise generating areas together. 

P22  The  layout  and  soundproofing  of  apartments  shall  limit  noise  transmission  between 

apartments, and from adjoining sites particularly from noise sites.  

P23  A Noise Impact Assessment prepared by a suitably qualified acoustic consultant may 

be required to accompany a Development Application. 

Safety and Security  

P24  Design of developments must provide personal and property security for residents and 

visitors and enhance perceptions of community safety.  

P25  A  Crime  Risk  Assessment 

in  compliance  with  Crime  Prevention  Through 
Environmental Design (CPTED) requirements is to be prepared by a suitably qualified 
consultant is required for DAs of more than 20 dwellings. 

P26  Each  building  shall  be  provided  with  an  entry  that  creates  a  sense  of  identity  for  the 

development.  

P27  Buildings  shall  be  designed  to  provide  casual  surveillance,  have  appropriate  lighting, 

clearly defined territory and avoid concealed or blind spots.  

Figure 31: Casual Surveillance of the Street 

Fences and Walls 

P28  The design and materials of fences and walls must be sympathetic to the streetscape, 

visually attractive and complement landscape elements. 

P29  The height (as measured from the public footpath side) of the front fencing must be: 

 
 
Not  higher  than  1.2  metres  above  ground  level  (existing),  and  with  a  maximum 
solid base component of 0.9 metres high.  

Not  higher  than  1.5  metres  above  ground  level  (existing)  if  the  fence  follows  a 
sloping  site  and  is  stepped  to  accommodate  the  fall  in  the  land,  and  with  a 
maximum solid base component of 1m high.  

P30   The  side  fence  and  any  internal  fences  behind  the  building  line  are  to  have  a 

maximum height of 1.8 metres.  

P31   Forward of the front building line, fences must step-down or transition to the height of 

the front fence. 

139 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Facilities and Amenities 

P32  An  amenities  room  (for  meetings  etc)  is  to  be  provided  where  the  building  has  more 
than 15 residential units. The room shall have minimum dimensions of 4 metres and be 
available for the use of residents. 

P33  Mail  boxes  shall  be  sited  and  designed for  attractive  visual  appearance  and  function, 
as  well  as  to  complement  the  architecture  and  environs.  Mail  boxes  shall,  where 
possible,  be  located  within  the  foyer  of  each  building.  Where  located  externally,  the 
mail  boxes  shall  be  located  at  right  angles  to  the  street  boundary  on  either  or  both 
sides  of  the  main  access  walkway.  It  is  not  permitted  to  locate  mail  boxes  that  are 
accessible only from the footpath outside a development. 

P34  The  size,  capacity  and  location  of  garbage  bin  areas  and  storage  facilities,  and  the 
provision  of  waste  chutes  in  residential  flat  buildings  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the 
Waste Management section of this DCP, which seek to encourage waste minimisation. 

P35  Clothes  drying  areas  shall  be  provided  within  an  area  of  communal  open  space  or 
provided within each residential unit. If provided on the balcony of individual units, the 
drying area must be screened from exterior view, and be designed in such a way that 
does not detract from the building’s appearance from the public domain. 

Adaptable Housing 

P36  All  development  for  residential  flat  buildings  in  the  R1  zone  must  provide  10%  of 
dwellings  for  adaptable  housing  to  cater  for  ageing  in  place  and/or  mobility  impaired 
residents. 

P37  At  least  one  car  parking  space  must  be  provided  and  allocated  to  each  dwelling 
required to be provided as accessible or adaptable housing under this Section and the 
car parking space must be accessible in accordance with the provisions of AS 1428.2 
to facilitate automatic vehicular wheelchair loading and unloading. 

Car Parking and Ground Level 

P38  Basement car parking is to be located fully below natural ground level. However, where 
slope  conditions  necessitate  protrusion  above  natural  ground  level,  the  protrusion  is 
not to exceed 0.75 metres. Otherwise, it will be counted as floor area. 

4.2 Shop Top Housing in Residential Zones 

4.2.1 

 Treatment of Shop Top Housing 

Shop  top  housing  is  permitted  in  the  R1  General  Residential  and  R3  Medium  density 
residential  zone  under  the  BLEP  2012.  Shop  top  housing  is  defined  as  one  or  more 
dwellings located above ground floor retail premises or business premises.  

In  both  the  R1  and  R3  zones,  shop  top  housing  must  occur  in  conjunction  with 
neighbourhood shops which are the only permitted retail or business premises in this zone. 
The definition does not state any numerical relationship between the retail premises, and the 
number of residential units in shop top housing. However Clause 5.4 (7) of the BLEP 2012 
requires that Neighbourhood shops must not exceed 80 square metres in floor area.  

In  the  R1  zone,  where  a  development  contains  three  of  more  dwellings attached  to  one  or 
more neighbourhood shops, the residential component of the development will be subject to 
the provisions of this DCP as if it were a residential flat building.  

Where a development of shop top housing comprises one or two dwellings in the R1 zone, it 
is  likely  to  be  low  rise  in  character.  In  the  R3  zone,  the  scale  of  shop  top  housing  will  be 
140 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
limited by the building height limit and maximum FSR development standards applying in this 
zone.  In  both  these  cases  this  DCP  section  does  not  establish  any  additional  controls  for 
neighbourhood  shops  or  associated  shop  top  housing.  Such  developments  will  be 
considered  on  a  merit  basis  having  regard  to  the  DCP  controls  applying  to  other  forms  of 
development in the zone and the existing character of the area. 

4.3 

Multi Dwelling Housing 

4.3.1  

Introduction  

This section mainly applies to multi dwelling housing in the R3 Medium Density Residential 
zone in the BLEP 2012, and also in the R1 General Residential  zone  where multi dwelling 
housing is also permitted.  

Under  the  BLEP  2012,  ‘Multi  dwelling  housing’  means  three  or  more  dwellings  (whether 
attached  or  detached)  on  one  lot  of  land,  each  with  access  at  ground  level,  but  does  not 
include a residential flat building. This form of development commonly is referred to as town 
house or villa housing. 

Three  or  more  dwellings  attached  to  a  Neighbourhood  shop  in  the  R1  or  R3  zones  will 
constitute shop top housing. 

Under the BLEP 2012 the development standards applying in the R3 zone will constrain the 
scale  of  all  permitted  development  including  multi  dwelling  housing.  In  the  R1  zone 
applicable development standards will mostly allow for more intensive development, and the 
scale of multi dwelling housing is likely to be constrained by the requirement for ground level 
access to each dwelling.  

The provisions within this section of the DCP address the three key aspects of planning and 
design for multi dwelling housing being: 

 
 
 
Site  Planning  –  how  buildings  responds  to  the  site,  neighbours  and  streetscape  with 
provisions creating a basic building envelope. 

Building  Design  –  the  aesthetic  and  functionality  of  building  facades  with  provisions 
refining the building envelope. 

Site  and  Building  Amenity  –  provisions  for  internal  and  external  building  amenity  with 
provisions addressing the finer details of the building.   

4.3.2 

 Development Controls  

4.3.2.1 Site Planning  

Objectives 

O1  To  ensure  new  development  responds  to  the  scale  and  form  of  the  existing  context 

(streetscape and adjoining properties) and site elements (landscaping and services).  

O2  To ensure new development provides appropriate levels of amenity for the private and 

public domain.  

O3  To ensure the street setbacks enhance the setting of the building and maintain amenity 

between neighbouring sites.  

Provisions 

Setbacks 

P1  The front setback of a building is to be a minimum of 6m.  

141 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P2  Side  setbacks  are  to  be  a  minimum  of  2  metres  for  the  ground  floor  level,  and  3.5 

metres for the first floor level or above.  

P3  The rear setback of a building is to be a minimum of 3 metres.  

P4  Setback  areas  must  be  free  of  projections  or  encroachments,  except  for  at-grade 
landscaping, to protect the amenity of adjoining properties and the streetscape.  

Building Separation 

P5 

The requirements for the separation of buildings on a site are shown in Figure 33:  

 
 
 
A minimum of 12 metres between buildings within the development site where 
habitable rooms face other habitable rooms 

A  minimum  of  9m  between  buildings  within  the  development  site  where 
habitable rooms face non-habitable rooms or blank walls 

A minimum of 3m metres between buildings within the development site where 
non-habitable rooms face other non-habitable rooms or blank walls 

Figure 32: Setback Requirements for Multi Dwelling Housing 

142 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 33: Building Separation for Multi Dwelling Housing 

143 

 
 
 
Building Widths and Breaks  

P6  The maximum width of a building facing a street is 20 metres (see diagram below). 

P7  Breaks between buildings facing a street should be a minimum of 3 metres wide, and 
where  possible  provide  alignment  with  other  streets,  lanes  or  regional  views  (see 
diagram below).  

Figure 34: Maximum Building Width and Building Breaks at Street Frontage 

P8  A building facade within a development shall not exceed a horizontal dimension of 14 

metres without adequate articulation. 

Site Frontage and Site Isolation 

P9  The minimum site frontage required for single storey development is 15 metres, and for 

two storey development is 17 metres. 

P10  For  single  storey  development,  attic  rooms  and  dormer  windows  are  allowed  which 

must be incorporated within the roof features. 

Figure 34(a): Use of Attic Rooms and Dormer Windows. Source: AMCORD 1997 

P11  Site consolidation is encouraged to promote efficient use of land and avoid the creation 

of isolated sites. 

P12  The  provisions  concerning  Site  Isolation  in  Section  4.1.2.1  also  apply  to  the 

development of multi dwelling housing.   

144 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Design  

Objective  

O1  To  ensure  the  appearance  of  new  development  defines  and  enhances  the  public 
domain through modulation, articulation, materials and sensitivity to heritage items and 
areas.  

Provisions  

Building Facades 

P1  The  façade  elements  (windows,  balconies,  gables)  must  be  articulated  and  relate  to 

the scale and character of the context. 

P2  A  mix  of  building  materials  and  colours  should  be  used  to  reduce  the  appearance  of 
bulk and integrate the building within the materials and colour palettes of the local area.  

P3  The  frontage  of  buildings  and  their  entries  shall  be  readily  apparent  from  the  street, 
with  buildings  adjacent  to  the  public  street  having  a  front  door  and  living  room  or 
kitchen window facing the street.  

Roof Design 

P4 

P5 

P6 

P7 

The design of the roof should respond to the orientation of the site.  

The design of the roof shall be integrated with the proposed built form and consistent 
with  adjacent  properties,  and  reduce  the  bulk  and  scale  of  the  roof  through 
articulation.  

The maximum permitted roof pitch is 32 degrees (Refer Figure 35(a)). 

Attic rooms must be contained wholly within the roof structure, however Council may 
consent  to  dormer  windows  and  similar  projections  only  when  it  is  satisfied  the 
privacy of neighbours is protected.  

Car Parking and Ground Level 

P8  Where parking spaces are provided in a basement it is to be located fully below natural 
ground  level  however  where  slope  conditions  necessitate  protrusion  above  natural 
ground level, the protrusion is not to exceed 0.75 metres otherwise it will be counted as 
floor area (Refer Figure 35(a)). 

Figure 35(a): Maximum Projection for Basement Car Parks on Sloping Sites and Maximum 
Roof Pitch 

145 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Site and Building Amenity  

Objective  

O1 

To  ensure the  design  of  internal  and  external  amenities  is  functional  and  enhances 
the quality of the environment for occupants 

Provision  

Private Open Space 

P1  Private open space is to have a northerly aspect where practicable. 

P2  Private open space is to be directly accessible from the living area of the dwelling and 

capable of serving as an extension of the living area. 

P3  Private  open  space  is  to  have  the  following  minimum  consolidated  area  and 
dimensions  for  all  dwellings:  25  square  metres  at  ground  level  with  a  minimum 
dimension of 4 metres in one direction.  

P4  Planting beds, screen walls and solid balconies should be considered to achieve a high 

level of privacy for a dwellings private open space. 

P5  Pedestrian  access  must  be  provided  to  private  open  space  areas  independently  of 
access  through  the  dwelling.  This  access  may  be  through  a  garage  area  or  external 
laundry. 

P6  Private open space in addition to the minimum 25 square metres requirement may be 
provided between the building and the street boundary provided it is not closer than 6 
metres to the street alignment.  

Communal Open Space 

P7  A  communal  open  space  area  must  be  provided  where  the  number  of  dwellings  in  a 

development exceeds eight. 

P8  Communal open space should have a minimum dimension of 6 metres.  

P9  Communal open space should have a northerly aspect.  

P10  Communal  open  space  is  to  present  as  an  area  for  residents  only,  include  passive 
surveillance  from  the  adjacent  living  areas  of  dwellings  and  provide  for  active  and 
passive recreation needs. 

P11  Communal open space must achieve good amenity in terms of natural airflow, outlook 
and solar access. At least 30% of the communal open space area is to achieve 2 hours 
of direct sunlight between 9.00am and 3.00pm on June 21.  

Deep Soil 

P12  A minimum of 15% of the site area is to be deep soil and have a minimum dimension of 

4 metres by 4 metres. 

P13  Deep  soil  areas  should  be  consolidated  on  the  development  site  and  should  be 
contiguous with at least some of the communal open space area (where provided) and 
the deep site zones of adjacent properties. 

P14  Existing  mature  trees  should  be  retained,  and  if  this  is  not  possible  or  they  are  not 

present, new trees should be provided at the rate of 2 per 100 sqm.  

Landscaping 

P15  A minimum of 25% of the site is to be landscaped (inclusive of the deep soil zone).  

146 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P16  Landscaped area includes all pervious surfaces, open space at ground level and open 

space with a minimum depth of 1 metre.  

P17  Information on landscaping for the development prepared by a Landscape Architect or 
practicing  Landscape  Consultant  shall  be  required  as  part  of  the  development 
assessment process. 

Solar Access and Natural Ventilation 

P18  The  Development  Application  is  to  include  diagrams  in  plan  and  elevation  that  show 
sun  access  to  the  proposed  dwellings  and  open  spaces  and  the  shadow  impact  on 
neighbouring  dwellings  from  the  proposal  at  9am,  12pm  and  3pm  on  March  21  and 
June 21.  

P19  Dwellings  within  the  development  site  and  adjoining  properties  are  to  receive  a 
minimum of 3 hours direct sunlight in habitable rooms and in at least 50% of the private 
open space between 9am and 3pm on June 21. 

P20  Where  the  neighbouring  development  currently  receives  less  than  3  hours  direct 
sunlight to living areas/habitable rooms and 50% of the private open space area, any 
additional overshadowing is to be minimised.  

P21  Living areas of the dwellings (kitchens, family rooms) should be located on the northern 
side  of  the  dwelling,  and  service  areas  (laundries  and  bathrooms)  to  the  south  and 
west.  

P22  Landscaping should provide shade in summer without reducing solar access in winter. 

P23  All  rooms  should  contain  an  external  window  to  provide  direct  light  and  ventilation, 

exceptions maybe considered for non-habitable rooms.  

P24  Natural cross ventilation should be achieved by locating window openings in opposing 

walls and in line with each other. 

P25  Buildings should be oriented to benefit from prevailing breezes. 

P26  Buildings  should  have  narrow  cross  sections,  providing  dual  aspect  for  dwellings  to 

allow for cross ventilation. 

P27  Consideration should be given to attics being cross-ventilated. 

Visual Privacy 

P28  Provide  adequate  building  separation  in  accordance  with  the  setback  requirements 

(Refer Figure 32). 

P29  Building  layout  and  location,  design  and  location  of  windows  and  screening  devices, 
balcony design and distance should avoid or minimise overlooking to and from private 
open space and the main habitable areas of dwellings.  

Acoustic Privacy 

P30  The  layout  and  soundproofing  of  dwellings  shall  limit  noise  transmission  between 

dwellings, and from adjoining sites.  

P31  A Noise Impact Assessment prepared by a suitably qualified acoustic consultant may 

be required when submitting a DA. 

Safety and Security  

P32  A Crime Risk Assessment in compliance with CEPTD requirements is to be prepared 
by a suitably qualified consultant when submitting a Development Application for more 
than 20 new dwellings. 

P33  Each dwelling is to be provided with an entry that creates a sense of individual identity.  

147 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P34  Buildings  shall  be  designed  to  provide  casual  surveillance,  have  appropriate  lighting, 

clearly defined territory and avoid concealed or blind spots.  

Fences and Walls 

P35  The design and materials of fences and walls must be sympathetic to the streetscape, 

visually attractive and complement landscape elements. 

P36 The height (as measured from the public footpath side) of the front fencing must be: 

 
 
Not higher than 1.2 metres above ground level (existing), and with a maximum 
solid base component of 0.9 metres high.  

Not higher than 1.5 metres above ground level (existing) if the fence follows a 
sloping  site  and  is  stepped  to  accommodate  the  fall  in  the  land),  and  with  a 
maximum solid base component of 1 metres high.  

P37  The side fence and any internal fences behind the building line are to have a maximum 

height of 1.8 metres. 

P38  Forward of the front building line, fences must step-down or transition to the height of 

the front fence. 

Facilities and Amenities 

P39  Garbage  bin  areas  and  external  storage  facilities  shall  be  sited  and  designed  for 
attractive  visual  appearance  and  function  and  complement  the  architecture  and 
environs. The size, capacity and location of garbage bin areas shall be in accordance 
with the Waste Management provisions of this DCP. 

P40  Mail  boxes  shall  be  sited  and  designed for  attractive  visual  appearance  and  function, 
as  well  as  to  complement  the  architecture  and  environs.  Mail  boxes  shall,  where 
possible,  be  located  within  the  foyer  of  each  building.  Where  located  externally,  the 
mail  boxes  shall  be  located  at  right  angles  to  the  street  boundary  on  either  or  both 
sides  of  the  main  access  walkway.  It  is  not  permitted  to  locate  mail  boxes  that  are 
accessible only from the footpath outside a development. 

4.4 

Dual Occupancies and Secondary Dwellings  

4.4.1 Introduction 

This  BDCP  section  applies  to  all  applications  for  development  consent  involving  a  dual 
occupancy or a secondary dwelling under the provisions of the BLEP 2012.  

A  reference  to  dual  occupancy  in  this  section  is  to  be  taken  to  also  apply  to  a  secondary 
dwelling, unless stated otherwise, or separate controls are provided. 

4.4.2 Affordable Rental Housing SEPP 

Under State Environmental Planning Policy (Affordable Rental Housing) 2009, a person may 
carry  out  development  for  the  purposes  of  a  secondary  dwelling  (i.e.  granny  flat)  as 
complying  development  by  applying  for  a  Complying  Development  Certificate  from  Council 
or an Accredited Certifier.  

A  development  proposal  for  a  secondary  dwelling  which  does  not  satisfy  the  provisions  of 
the SEPP will require the submission of a DA, and the DA will be assessed under this BDCP.  

148 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4.3 Development Controls 

Objectives 

O1   Assist in provision of affordable rental accommodation.  

O2   Provide  additional  family  accommodation  within  an  existing  dwelling  house  or  by 

enabling a second dwelling on the same allotment. 

O3   Ensure the amenity of residents of the dual occupancy development, as well as that of 

the residents of adjoining and nearby dwellings.  

O4   Ensure the compatibility of residential development with the scale of development and 

character of existing localities.  

4.4.3.1 Development Sites 

Minimum Area of Allotments 

P1 

Clause 4.1A of the BLEP 2012 establishes minimum lot size development standards 
for dual occupancies. 

P2  

Secondary dwellings will not be permitted on lots with an area less than 450 sqm. 

Battleaxe or Hatchet Shaped Allotments 

P3  

If  an  application  is  made  to  erect  either  an  attached  or  detached  dual  occupancy 
development upon a battleaxe allotment, the dwellings will be limited to single storey 
to reduce the potential for privacy impacts on surrounding properties.  

4.4.3.2 Building Design 

Height 

P1  

No building is to exceed two storeys in height above natural ground level.  

P2   Where a dual occupancy or secondary dwelling development proposes one dwelling 
at the property’s street frontage and the other dwelling within the rear yard, the rear 
dwelling will generally be limited to single storey. 

P3  

P4  

P5  

In  areas  zoned  R1  or  R3,  Council  may  consider  allowing  both  dwellings  to  be  two 
storeys in part or with an attic-style first floor level. The size and location of the upper 
floor  will  be  determined  in  the  context  of  streetscape  and  amenity  considerations 
following the applicant’s preparation of a detailed site analysis.  

The  floor  to  ceiling  height  of  the  first  floor  level  of  a  proposed  dwelling  is  not  to 
exceed 2.6 metres in height to minimise overshadowing and reduce visual bulk.  

The floor to ceiling height of a ground floor level on a new dual occupancy dwelling is 
not to exceed 2.7 metres. 

Advisory Note: 
Floor-to-ceiling heights of rooms are to satisfy the requirements of Part 3.8.2 of the Building Code of Australia to 
ensure that the proper functioning of the room is not unduly prejudiced, nor the level of fire safety is reduced.  

Floor Space Ratio 

P6  

The  maximum  Floor  Space  Ratio  (FSR)  is  set  out  in  the  Floor  Space  Ratio  Map  of 
the BLEP 2012.  

149 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P7   Where a dual occupancy development is proposed in a R1 or R3 zone, consideration 
will be given to the visual bulk and scale of the proposed development. Excessively 
sized dual occupancy developments will not be accepted on the basis of FSR alone, 
and  the  development  proposal  must  demonstrate  compatibility  with  the  established 
streetscape character and building appearance in the locality. 

Advisory Note:  
For  calculating  the  Floor  Space  Ratio,  it  is  important  to  consult  the  definition  contained  in  clause  4.5(2)  of  the 
BLEP 2012, together with the definition of Gross Floor Area in the BLEP 2012 Dictionary. It should be noted that 
the calculation is taken from the internal face of walls and includes all buildings within a site. 

Built Area  

P8    The maximum Built Area is 67%.  

Built Area is determined to be the total floor area of all buildings relative to the area of 
the allotment of land expressed as a percentage. The calculation of Built Area shall 
be taken from the external face of walls (i.e. includes wall thickness) and includes the 
area  of  each  floor  or  storey  balconies,  verandahs  and  the  like,  whether  covered  or 
uncovered,  open  or  enclosed  garages,  carports  and  covered  car  parking  (except 
basement  car  parking)  and  outbuildings.  Built  Area  excludes  outdoor  swimming 
pools, paths and exterior driveways. 

Setbacks 

The following setbacks apply for dual occupancy development and secondary dwellings:  

P9  

Front setback (for the dwelling addressing the primary street frontage): 

 
 
-  The average of the localised existing building line for the ground floor level. 

- 9  metres  to  the  upper  level  of  a  two  storey  dwelling,  and  the  first  floor  level 

must be setback at least 3 metres beyond the ground floor façade. 

P10  Side setback:  

 
 
  900 millimetres to the ground floor level or single storey elevation. 

1.5 metres to the upper level of a two storey dwelling. 

P11   Rear setback: 

 
 
3 metres setback to the ground floor level of a dwelling. 

6 metres setback to the upper level of a two storey dwelling. 

P12   Secondary street (i.e. side street) setbacks for corner properties: 

 
 
The existing building line to that secondary street.  

If located in a R1 or R3 zone and both dwellings will be two storeys, the upper 
level must be setback at least 600 millimetres from the ground floor for the side 
that has frontage to the secondary street.  

Advisory Note:  
The primary street frontage will be taken to be the street to which the property is rated, or the property’s narrower 
frontage. 

Size of Buildings 

P13  

Irrespective  of  the  allotment  size,  the  Council  does  not  generally  favour  dwellings 
exceeding  450  square  metres  in  Built  Area.  Applicants  should  submit  written 
justification in support of larger dwellings. Buildings above this size will generally only 
be allowed where the allotment size, floor space ratios and the character of existing 
development in the area so warrants.  

150 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Landscaping 

P14  A minimum 30% of the front setback (i.e. front yard) is to consist of soft landscaping. 
P15  Rear yards will not be permitted to be dominated by hard landscaping.  

4.4.3.3 Development Features 

Private Open Space 

P1 

Each dwelling is to be provided with a clearly identifiable area of private open space 
of  at  least  50  square  metres  adjacent  to  living  areas  to  ensure  the  amenity  of  the 
dwelling in terms of privacy and recreation.  

P2  

The private open space should also satisfy the following criteria:  

  Consist of predominantly grassed area.  

  Consist  of  "useable  space"  with  sufficient  dimensions  to  enable  the  area  to 
function  as  a  private  recreational  area.  Narrow  elongated  areas  will  not  be 
included in the 50m² minimum open space requirement.  

  Provided behind the building alignment of each of the respective dwellings. In the 
case of detached dual occupancy developments, with the second dwelling at the 
rear  of  the  site,  the  private  open  space  area  for  the  dwelling  furthest  from  the 
street should preferably be situated between that dwelling and the rear property 
boundary. 

  Landscaped  as  to  maximise  the  visual  amenity  of  the  development  and  the 

privacy of adjoining developments.  

Orientation of Buildings 

P3 

P4  

P5  

Council  has  preference  for  a  dual  occupancy  design  that  positions  one  dwelling 
behind the other.  

Attached dual occupancies should be asymmetrical in appearance and orientated to 
the street.  

Detached  dual  occupancies  should  be  orientated  to  the  primary  street  frontage  to 
retain  the  existing  character  of  the  locality.  Council  will  not  permit  rear  dwellings  to 
face onto rear lanes.  

P6  

Dual occupancies on corner allotments should have each dwelling facing a separate 
street.  

P7   Garages shall not be permitted forward of the building line.  

Building Appearance 

P8  

All new building work shall be of quality design and compatible with the character of 
the locality. The building design is to maintain, or enhance, the quality and identity of 
its streets, and to provide a focus and identity for the dwellings.  
Design should aim to match, or exceed, the best design and detailing of development 
in  the  locality,  as  well  as  architectural  quality  in  its  own  right.  Materials  and 
workmanship is to be of high quality and compatible with the style of the house.  

P9  

Design should be in harmony with any adjoining or nearby heritage-listed building or 
other well designed and built dwellings in the area.  

151 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P10   Attention must be given to the design of all elevations and to roof forms, window and 

door openings and the building features generally.  

P11   Front  entries  should  be  clearly  visible  and  obvious  from  the  street.  An  exception 
would  be  side  entrances  for  a  California  Bungalow  design.  Where  there  is  a  side 
entrance, it should be indicated by design and details of paths, planting, fencing and 
side porch.  

P12  Rigid symmetry should generally be avoided in design, as the majority of Burwood’s 

residential character comprises asymmetric building design.  

P13   Wide and/or long elevations should be treated to provide for visual relief in the form 
of  setbacks,  recesses  and  articulation  which  reflect  changes  in  the  plan  and  roof 
form.  

P14   Separate  garages  and  carports  must  be  compatible  with  the  building  style  as 
appropriate in relation to height, roof form, architectural work, materials, etc.  

P15   A  proper  pattern  of  door  and  window  treatment  is  required  and  should  be  matched 
with appropriate header and sill work. Windows should be of proper proportions and 
dimensions and should provide for uniformity in elevation. Window treatment by way 
of  hoods,  bay  window  design  and/or  timber framing  may  be  required  in  appropriate 
situations.  

P16  The  location  or  size  of  verandahs  and  balconies  should  be  carefully  designed  in 
relation to adjacent garden areas and rooms within the house, as well as orientation 
for sun/shade and privacy for surrounding properties. Verandahs across the full width 
of first floor façades are generally not supported.  

P17   External stairways are not permitted to the upper floor level.  

P18  Building façade projections, recesses and the like, are to be utilised within the design 
to reduce the box-like and bulky appearance of large, flat, vertical elevations upon a 
dwelling.  

Streetscape 

P19   Any new dwelling or alteration to an existing dwelling should be compatible with and 
complement  those  adjacent  and  nearby  in  the  street  and  any  new  building  work 
should positively contribute to the identity of the street and the locality.  

P20   Dwelling design should enhance the existing built form and be of similar scale, form, 
bulk,  placement  and  character  to  those  adjoining  and  nearby  in  the  street.  The 
building  line  for  new  dwellings  of  similar  scale  should  be  the  average  of  adjacent 
dwellings.  

P21  Roofs  should  be  of  similar  pitch,  form  and  material  to  those  generally  in  the  street, 
e.g. roof gables are characteristic in some areas. Design is to continue the particular 
features of the prevailing character of the street, e.g. verandah treatment makes an 
important contribution to streetscape character.  

P22  Front and side return fences should be of similar height, material and style and are to 
be  in  character  and  scale  with  those  adjoining  and  in  the  street,  and  in  conformity 
with Council’s controls for front and side fences in section 4.5.5.2 of this DCP.  

P23   Garages/carports  should  be  of  a  scale  and  position  so  as  not  to  conflict  with  the 
character  of  the  houses  in  the  street.  Rear  lane  access  should  be  used  where 

152 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
available.  Garage  and  carports  are  to  be  located  to  the  side  or  rear  of  properties, 
wherever possible.  

P24   Where a second storey is appropriate and permissible, and where most surrounding 
dwellings are mostly single storey, a new two storey building may not be appropriate, 
but a first floor addition may be considered if the upper storey is substantially setback 
from the front elevation.  

P25   Single car width garage doors only will be permitted facing the street. Exception may 
be  made  for  wide  blocks  of  land.  Double  width  garage  doors  are  generally 
discouraged where they face the street. Garage door openings including intermediate 
piers  must  not  exceed  40%  of  the  entire  width  of  the  front  elevation  of  the  single 
dwelling. 

Privacy 

P26   Overlooking of adjoining yards and living areas from balconies at the upper level and 
from  living  areas  is  to  be  minimised,  and  building  layouts  are  to  be  designed  in 
relation  to  window  placement  and  sill  heights  and  doors  to  maximise  privacy  and 
minimise noise effects.  

P27   Windows  of  habitable  rooms  at  first  floor  level  are  to  be  offset  relative  to  the  side 
windows  of  adjoining  dwellings.  Screening  devices  and  screen  planting  are  to  be 
utilised to minimise overlooking and maintain privacy between living areas and open 
recreation areas and to reduce loss of privacy to adjoining dwellings.  

P28   Greater separation between the building and those adjoining should be provided for 

increased privacy, where necessary.  

P29   Balconies  are  not  to  be  located  at  first  floor  level  where  they  overlook  neighbour’s 
outdoor  living  areas,  unless  adequate  screening  is  implemented.  Upper  floor 
balconies  will only be permitted off bedrooms and be of minimal dimensions. Living 
areas,  including  studies  at  the  upper  level  are  to  have  raised  sill  heights  and/or 
translucent glazing of windows to minimise loss of privacy to adjoining dwellings.  

Access 

P30   Vehicular  access  to  and  from  the  dual  occupancy  must  be  in  a  forward  facing 

direction.  

P31   Access shall be via land under title to the allotment and not via a right of way across 

an adjoining property.  

P32   Council will not consent to development where a dual occupancy is proposed to face 
a major arterial road unless access is provided via an adjoining local road or by way 
of a consolidated driveway.  

P33   Each  dwelling  is  to  have  a  separate  and  clearly  identifiable  entry  that  is  easily 

accessible from the front road and parking areas.  

Energy Efficiency 

P34   Where ever possible regard should be given to improving energy efficiency. Energy 
efficient designs, materials and devices shall be considered in the construction of any 
dwelling.  This  issue  is  to  be  addressed  in  detail  in  the  Statement  of  Environmental 
Effects, which accompanies the Development Application.  

153 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Solar Access 

P35   New  dual  occupancy  development  is  to  ensure  adequate  sunlight  is  available  for 
occupants of new buildings and to minimise loss of winter sun to adjoining premises.  

Overshadowing  in  winter  of  adjoining  premises  is  to  be  minimised,  using  minimum 
floor  to  ceiling  heights  and  maximising  setbacks  of  southern  elevation  walls  at  the 
upper level. Maximum use is to be made of north facing areas for windows, outdoor 
recreation, clothes drying, etc.  

P36   First floor sections of dwellings are preferably to be incorporated within attic rooms, to 
minimise  overshadowing  to  the  south.  Shadow  diagrams  are  to  accompany 
applications for two-storey development. The height of the wall of the first floor level 
section on a southern elevation is not to exceed 2.6 metres above its floor level.  

P37   The southern elevation of the first floor on the minimum setback is not to exceed 10 
metres in length. Council will permit extension if the wall is inset a further 2 metres as 
shown in Figure 35(b). 

Figure 35(b): Setbacks to Minimise Overshadowing 

154 

 
 
 
Duplex Development 

Duplex refers to two dwellings on a single lot that are positioned side by side when viewed 
from the street. It is a form of an attached dual occupancy.   

Figure 35(c): Understanding Duplex Development 

P38  Duplex  development  will  not  be  supported  in  streets  and  sites  subject  to  Building 
Appearance  and  Streetscape  Provisions  under  Section  4.5.  Refer  to  the  map  at 
Appendix 8.2.  

P39  Duplex development requires a minimum site frontage of 15 metres.  

P40   Duplex  development  will  not  be  supported  on  battleaxe  lots.  For  corner  allotments, 

both street frontages must each be a minimum of 15 metres.  

P41  Garage  door  openings  including  intermediate  piers  and  carports  must  not  exceed 
40% or 7.5 metres (whichever is the lesser) of the entire width of the front elevation 
of the duplex. 

P42  Garages and carports must not be erected within the established duplex setback and 

the street alignment.  

P43    A  minimum  of  50%  of  the  front  setback  (i.e.  front  yard)  is  to  consist  of  soft 

landscaping. 

P44  Duplexes  must  provide  variation  in  the  design  of  the  front  façade  of  each  dwelling. 
Mirror  imaged  duplexes,  incorporating  protruding  garages  facing  the  street,  will  not 
be supported by Council. 

P45  Duplexes  should  be  designed  in  a  way  to  have  the  appearance  of  a  typical  single 

dwelling house when viewed from the street.  

P46  Garaging of more than two cars (i.e. one for each dwelling) is considered excessive. 
The  floor  area  of  any  further  car  space  will  be  included  in  the  gross  floor  area 
calculations.  

Advisory Note:  
Duplexes must comply with all other provisions of Section 4.4 Dual Occupancies and Secondary Dwellings.  

155 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subdivision 

P47  Dual  occupancy  and  secondary  dwelling  developments,  by  definition,  do  not  permit 

subdivision by Torrens Title. 

Advisory Note: 
Torrens Title subdivision may only be sought where the development is to be treated as two dwelling houses on 
separate  lots,  and  satisfying  the  minimum  subdivision  lot  size  in  Clause  4.1  of  the  BLEP,  building  separation 
requirements of the BCA/NCC, and Council’s development controls for single dwelling houses. Council must be 
satisfied  that  each  dwelling  is  able  to  function  accordingly  on  its  own  lot,  particularly  in  relation  to  parking 
provision and access, adequacy of private open space, and waste management.  

P48  Dual occupancy developments in the R2 zone will not be permitted to be subdivided 

by Strata or Community Title.  

This  subdivision  control  seeks  to  provide  for  reasonable  levels  of  affordable  rental 
housing  and  family  accommodation  without  unduly  compromising  the  values  of  low 
density  residential  areas.  The  separate  titling  of  dual  occupancy  developments  is 
contrary  to  these  aims  as  it  leads  to  sporadic  concentrations  of  opportunistic 
development, limits the adaptability of dwellings to meet future needs, and negatively 
affects the integrity of the subdivision pattern. 

P49  A secondary dwelling will not be permitted to be subdivided under any titling system 

by virtue of its reliance on the principal dwelling and its small size. 

Conversion of a Dwelling House 

P50  Where  an  application  is made  to  create  two  dwellings  by  means  of  conversion  of  a 
dwelling  house  with  floor  space  ratio  exceeding  0.55:1  and  built  prior  to  19  June 
1987,  the  Council  may  consent  to  the  application  if  no  increase  in  floor  space  ratio 
will result.  

Existing Dwellings 

P51  Council will not consent to a Dual Occupancy where the proposal will result in more 
than  two  dwellings.  This  includes  cases  where  a  dwelling  is  to  be  added  to  an 
existing building with two pre-existing domiciles. 

Utility Services 

P52   All water and sewerage pipes and duct work must not be visible from a public place 

and must meet Sydney Water’s requirements. 

P53   Electricity  power  poles  placed  within  the  front  yard  of  the  house  must  be  treated  in 
colours that match the existing single dwelling and be to Council’s satisfaction.  

Drainage 

P54   All drainage works must comply with Council’s Stormwater Management Code. 

P55  Existing  natural  overland  stormwater  flow  paths  must  not  be  diverted  by  fencing, 

retaining walls, buildings, paved areas or any other form of construction. 

P56   New hard paved surfaces must be kept to a minimum to prevent stormwater runoff.  

P57   Stormwater  runoff  from  roofs,  hard  surfaces,  swimming  pools  and  the  like  must  be 
collected,  piped  and  drained  to  the  kerb  or  an  inter-allotment  drainage  system. 

156 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Charged  lines  are  permitted,  however  these  must  be  designed  by  a  practicing 
Hydraulic Engineer. 

P58   Pits and pumps are generally not permitted, except within basement garages. 

P59   Absorption trenches are generally not permitted.  

P60  Ground floor levels must be sufficiently elevated so as not to be subject to flooding.  

P61  Soft landscaping and pervious surfaces must be maximised on the site.  

P62  A stormwater concept plan is required to be submitted to Council in accordance with 

Council’s Stormwater Management Code. 

4.5  Dwelling Houses, Attached Dwellings, Semi-Detached Dwellings and 

Ancillary Structures 

Introduction 

This  BDCP  section  applies  to  all  Development  Applications  for  the  development,  including 
demolition, of dwelling houses, attached dwellings and semi-detached dwellings, as well as 
structures  ancillary  to  those  development  types,  on  land  in  Residential  zones  under  the 
BLEP 2012.  

A  reference  to  ‘single  dwelling’  herein  means  a  dwelling  house,  or  one  dwelling  within  an 
attached dwelling or semi-detached dwelling development. 

Aims 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ensure  that  new  development  within  the  Burwood  LGA  adopts  good  urban  design 
principles.  

Ensure the maintenance of a safe locality and pleasant environment for the long-term 
benefit of all residents in Burwood.  

Provide attractive streetscapes by ensuring that the proposed building work integrates 
with surrounding development.  

Ensure  that  new  building  work  is  visually  compatible  with  the  existing  or  identified 
future character of the locality.  

Provide  for  the  privacy  and  boundary  definition  of  individual  properties  whilst 
maintaining the open landscaped appearance of streets in the area.  

Ensure  that  garage  and  carport  design  is  compatible  with  the  streetscape  and  the 
development on site.  

Ensure that fencing is sympathetic to the scale and character of the street as well as 
the existing development on site. 

4.5.1 Development Controls 

Building Appearance  

Overview  

These Building Appearance controls apply only to streets and sites identified on the map in 
Section  8.2  titled  Streets  and  Sites  Subject  to  Building  Appearance  and  Streetscape 
Provisions. These streets and sites have been recognised as having a high quality building 
appearance which should be maintained.  

157 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The appearance of single dwellings must be of a high standard to ensure that the character 
and visual cohesiveness of Burwood’s residential areas are not diminished. Alterations to the 
façade of existing houses can seriously disrupt the unity of a group of single dwellings and 
detract from their existing character. This section encourages the use of suitable materials, 
sympathetic  design  and  appropriate  building  practices  to  maintain  and  enhance  the  visual 
character of Burwood’s residential buildings.  

Objectives  

O1  

To  ensure  that  new  building  works  achieve  a  high  quality  of  design  and  are 
compatible with the character of Burwood’s residential areas.  

O2  

To maintain or enhance the quality and identity of development in the areas identified 
in the map in Section 8.2. 

Provisions  

Design  

P1 

P2 

P3 

P4 

The design of the single dwelling must aim to match or compliment the best design 
and detailing of development in the area, as well as, be of high architectural quality.  

Care must be given to the design of building forms and to all elevations, roof forms, 
windows,  door  openings  and  building  features  generally  to  ensure  that  the  single 
dwelling is compatible with and complementary to its neighbours and the streetscape.  

Building heights must relate to the general character of the houses in the immediate 
locality and in the street.  

Overall  massing  of  building  volumes  must  be  articulated  or  modulated  to  avoid  a 
bulky appearance. Articulation must be reflected in the building and roof forms.  

P5  Wide and/or long elevations must be treated to provide for visual relief in the form of 

setbacks, recesses and articulations.  

P6 

The  front  entry  of  the  single  dwelling  must  be  clearly  visible  and  obvious  from  the 
street. An exception to this provision is side entrances to Californian Bungalow and 
Interwar designs.  

P7   Where there is a side entrance, it must be clearly  identified by design and detailing 

such as paths, planting, fencing or side porches. 

Materials, Workmanship and Finishes 

P8 

P9  

Materials and workmanship must be of high quality and compatible with the style of 
the single dwelling and with the best of surrounding development. 

Appropriate  materials  and  finishes  must  complement  the  architectural  style  of  the 
single dwelling.  

P10   Samples of finished surface materials such as bricks, tiles, ridge capping, windows, 
doors  and  a  schedule  of  paint  colours  must  be  submitted  to  Council  as  part  of  the 
Development Application. 

P11  An orderly pattern of door and window treatment is required to compliment the style 
of the single dwelling. Window and door openings must be finished with appropriate 

158 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lintels  and  sills.  Window  panels  must  be  of  vertical  proportions  and  must  be  set  in 
solid reveals and provide for consistency in appearance. 

Building Elements 

P12   Ancillary structures such as garages, carports and outbuildings must be designed to 
reflect  the  style  of  the  single  dwelling  in  relation  to  height,  roof  form,  architecture, 
materials  and  the  like.  These  should  conform  to  relevant  DCP  controls  and 
compliment the character of the residential area. 

P13   Window  treatments  such  as  hoods,  bay  window  design  and/or  timber  framing  in 
appropriate situations may be required to enhance the building appearance. 

P14   The location or size of verandahs and balconies adjacent to garden areas and rooms 
within  the  house  must  be  carefully  designed  and  take  into  consideration  the 
orientation for sun/shade and privacy for surrounding properties.  

P15   Balconies  and  first  floor  verandahs  must  be  of  modest  dimensions  so  as  not  to 
facilitate  excessive  use  and  impact  upon  the  amenity  and  privacy  of  adjoining 
premises.  

P16   External stairways are not permitted to the first floor level of the single dwelling or to 

balconies and first floor verandahs. 

Streetscape  

Overview 

This  section  applies  only  to  streets  and  sites  identified  on  the  map  in  Section  8.2,  titled 
Streets and Sites Subject to Building Appearance and Streetscape Provisions. These streets 
and  sites  have  been  recognised  as  having  high  quality  streetscapes  which  should  be 
maintained.  

The  streetscape  includes  both  public  domain  spaces  such  as  the  street  itself  and  the 
adjoining Council owned nature strip, as well as the front gardens and front building facades 
of  each  single  dwelling  within  the  street.  Since  the  streetscape  is  about  the  interface 
between the private and public domain, every new development will affect the overall picture 
or  character  of  an  area.  Whenever  a  new  single  dwelling  or  major  alteration  or  addition  is 
planned,  it  must  respect  and  contribute  to  the  streetscape  and  must  not  intrude  upon  or 
degrade  the  streetscape.  Council’s  assessment  of  DAs  must  evaluate  the  impact  of  the 
proposal on streetscape character.  

Objectives 

O1  

O2  

To ensure that any new single dwelling or alteration to an existing single dwelling is 
compatible with and complements adjacent and nearby single dwellings in the street. 

To ensure that any new building work should positively contribute to the character of 
the streetscape and the locality. 

Provisions 

Site Planning and Design  

P1  

Single dwelling design must preserve existing characteristics of neighbouring houses 
and  enhance  the  existing  built  form  and  streetscape  values.  New  single  dwellings 
must be of similar scale, form, bulk, placement and character to adjoining and nearby 
single dwellings in the street.  

159 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P2    The building line must be consistent with the adjacent single dwellings. 

P3  

P4  

Building  height  at  the  street  frontage  must  not  exceed  the  height  and  scale  of 
adjoining development. 

Roof  design,  materials  and  detailing  must  be  complementary  to  the  streetscape 
character.  

Major Alterations and New Single Dwellings 

P5  

P6 

P7  

New attached dwellings and semi-detached dwellings will generally not be permitted 
on  land  subject  to  the  Building  Appearance  and  Streetscape  provisions,  nor  within 
heritage  conservation  areas,  unless  the  attached  or  semi-detached  form  can  be 
established as the predominant building form in the existing locality, and the design 
of the new structures is sympathetic to those existing structures. 

The  design  of  major  alterations  must  retain  characteristic  features  prevalent  in 
houses in the street. For example, design features such as a verandah, front gable, 
window awning, bay window, face brickwork or stone details should be retained or re-
instated to retain and reinforce the prevailing streetscape character. 

The  design  of  new  single  dwellings  or  alterations  must  incorporate  characteristic 
features  prevalent  in  houses  in  the  street.  For  example,  design  features  such  as 
verandah,  bay  window,  gable  or  main  entry  must  be  sympathetic  and  contribute  to 
the prevailing streetscape character.  

Two Storey Development  

P8  

A  full  two  storey  single  dwelling  would  not  be  considered  appropriate  where 
surrounding  single  dwellings  are  mostly  single  storey.  However,  a  part  two  storey 
single dwelling may be considered if the first floor is setback a minimum of 9m behind 
the front building line of the ground floor and located behind the main roof form of the 
building. 

P9    To better integrate a new first floor level into a single storey area, its height and bulk 
can be kept to a minimum by reducing the floor to ceiling heights, together with the 
use  of  raked  ceilings  and  attic  type  rooms  with  suitably  proportioned  dormer 
windows, where appropriate. The style of dormer windows should be compatible with 
the style of the house.  

Gardens, Landscaping and Fences 

P10   Front  and  side  gardens,  driveway  entries  and  paths  must  use  similar  materials  and 
methods  to  reinforce  existing  streetscape  character.  Planting  and  landscaping 
methods should follow existing patterns of development to reinforce the contribution 
of front and side gardens to the prevailing character of the streetscape.  

P11   Front  and  side  return  fences  must  be  of  similar  height,  material  and  style  to  be  in 
character  and  scale  with  existing  fences  or  those  of  adjoining  houses  and  in  the 
street generally and in conformity with the Front and Side Fences section of this DCP 
Part. 

Location of Vehicle Access and Garaging 

P12   Where there is suitable side access for new garages and outbuildings they should be 

located to the rear of the property.  

160 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P13   New carports may be located along a side driveway providing these are setback from 

the building frontage and back from any front or side verandah. 

P14   Garage  door  openings  including  intermediate  piers  must  not  exceed  40%  of  the 

entire width of the front elevation of the single dwelling.  

P15   New  driveways,  paved  turning  areas  and  paths  visible  from  the  street  must  not 
dominate  the  front  garden  or  impact  on  the  streetscape  values.  Paving  materials 
must be compatible with general streetscape character in terms of materials, colour, 
texture and extent.  

Advisory Note:  
Further  provisions  relating  to  vehicle  parking,  garages  and  carports  in  respect  to  heritage 
items and properties in a heritage conservation area are to be found in Section 4.7. 

Sunlight 

Overview 

Sunlight is an important component of residential amenity as it enhances people’s sense of 
wellbeing, has a demonstrated psychological value and promotes the growth of gardens and 
plants.  The  sun  can  also  provide  thermal  benefits  and  solar  energy  for  generation  of  hot 
water  and  electricity.  It  is  imperative  that  living  spaces,  structures,  walls  and  roofs  have 
maximum access to sunlight.  

Objectives 

O1  

O2  

To ensure that new development allows adequate sunlight. 

To ensure that new development minimises loss of winter sun on adjoining premises.  

Provisions 

P1  

All building work must minimise overshadowing to adjoining properties, particularly to 
the south. 

P2 

P3 

Two  storey  single  dwellings  must  not  eliminate  solar  access  on  adjacent  smaller 
dwellings. 

The street configuration of certain lots in the Burwood LGA does not allow shadowing 
to be prevented. There will be some instances where dwellings may lose sunlight on 
narrow lots with an east to west axis this is notwithstanding that Council makes every 
effort to ensure reasonable solar access.  

P4   Maximum  use  must  be  made  of  north  facing  areas  for  windows,  outdoor  recreation 

and clothes drying, etc. 

P5 

P6  

During the summer season, the sun is not to cause overheating in living areas of the 
single dwelling. This overheating can be reduced through effective methods such as 
insulation, reflective barriers and shading. 

The floor to ceiling height for the first floor level of the proposed single dwelling is not 
to exceed 2.6m, and the ground floor level is not to exceed 2.7m. However, the floor 
to  ceiling  height  for  the  first  floor  level  is  required  to  be  2.4m  in  respect  to  a  single 
dwelling in a Conservation Area or in respect to additions to a heritage item. 

P7  

Building  floor  levels  must  not  be  raised,  where  there  is  a  slope  to  the  site.  Building 
heights are to be minimised by cutting of a site rather than filling. 

161 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P8  

The  southern  elevation  of  the  first  floor  building  on  the  minimum  setback  is  not  to 
exceed 10m in length. Council will permit further extension if the wall is inset a further 
2 metres as shown in Figure 36. 

Figure 36: Setbacks to Minimise Overshadowing 

Privacy 

Overview 

Private  open  spaces  and  living  areas  of  adjacent  dwellings  should  be  protected  from 
overlooking.  Privacy  refers  to  both  visual  and  acoustic  privacy.  The  design  of  a  single 
dwelling  should  take  into  consideration  the  visual  privacy  of  neighbours.  The  design 
considerations  include  fencing,  windows  and  private  open  space  as  well  as  siting  and 
internal layout of single dwellings. 

Objective 

O1 

To maintain visual and acoustic privacy for adjacent and nearby residents. 

Provisions 

P1 

Detailed site and building design elements should be incorporated to increase privacy 
without compromising access to natural light and air. Design detailing may include: 

(i)   Solid or semi-solid balustrades to balconies 

(ii)   Offset windows of dwellings 

162 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(iii)   Recessed balconies and/or vertical fins 

(iv)   Louvres or screen panels to windows and/or balconies to minimise overlooking 

and maintain privacy between living areas and open recreation areas  

(v)   Fencing 

(vi)  Vegetation as a screen between spaces 

(vii)   Pergolas or shading devices to limit overlooking 

P2  

P3  

P4  

Living  areas,  including  studies,  at  the first floor must  have  raised  sill  heights  and/or 
translucent  glazing  of  windows  to  minimise  loss  of  privacy  to  adjoining  single 
dwellings. 

Translucent or opaque windows must be provided to all bathrooms, en-suites, water 
closets (i.e. toilet), and stairwells. 

Building  layouts  must  be  designed  in  relation  to window  placement,  sill  heights  and 
doors to maximise privacy and minimise noise effects. 

P5    To provide sufficient privacy there must be adequate building separation. 

Balconies 

P6  

P7  

P8  

Balconies  are  not  to  be  located  at  first  floor  level  where  they  overlook  neighbour’s 
outdoor living areas, unless adequate screening is implemented.  

Balconies  are  not  permitted  on  the  side  elevation,  with  the  exception  of  single 
dwellings  located  on  corner  blocks,  i.e.  the  elevation  facing  the  secondary  street 
frontage.  

First floor balconies will not be permitted off living areas (bedroom access only) and 
must be of minimal dimensions. These balconies must not exceed a maximum width 
of 1.5 metres. 

Height 

Overview 

The height of the single dwelling has a bearing on the visual and physical bulk and scale of 
the building. The height of the single dwelling should maintain consistency with the majority 
of the single dwellings in the street. 

Objectives 

O1 

To ensure that new single dwellings or alterations to existing single dwellings are in 
scale with and maintain the character of existing development in the street. 

Provisions 

P1   

P2 

Single dwellings must not exceed 8.5 metres in height from the natural ground level 
to the ridge as measured vertically at any point. 

Notwithstanding  P1  above,  in  particular  circumstances  there  may  be  exceptions 
granted for steeper pitched roofs that do not detract from the aesthetics of the single 
dwelling.  

P3  

Single  dwellings  must  not  exceed  two  stories  in  height  above  the  natural  ground 
level.  However,  consideration  may  be  given  to  a  basement  where  such  area  has  a 

163 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ceiling height not exceeding 2.3 metres from the underside of the edge beam and is 
below existing ground level as described in P5 below. 

The basement area must not be used as a habitable room. 

Basement areas must not exceed existing natural ground level by more than 750mm 
when measured to the top of the ground floor slab above the existing ground level.  

The  basement  wall  must  be  designed  so  as  to  form  an  integral  part  of  the  building 
and not look like a basement wall from the external elevation. 

The basement shall be wholly within the footprint of the dwelling above. 

The  floor  to  ceiling  height  of  the  first  floor  level  is  not  to  exceed  2.6  metres  to 
minimise overshadowing and excessive height. 

The floor to  ceiling  height  of  the ground  level  of  new  development  is  not  to  exceed 
2.7 metres. 

P4  

P5  

P6  

P7  

P8  

P9  

P10   The  ceiling  height for  attic  rooms,  rooms  with  a  sloping  ceiling  or  projections  below 
ceiling  lines,  non-habitable  rooms  or  the  like  must  not  interfere  with  the  room  or 
space’s intended purpose. 

P11   The  floor  to  ceiling  height  of  rooms  must  satisfy  the  requirements  of  the  Building 
Code of Australia Housing Provisions Part 3.8.2.2 “Ceiling Height”, and must ensure 
that  the  room  or  space  is  used  for  its  intended  purpose,  and  that  the  level  of  fire 
safety, health and amenity is not reduced. 

P12   Building  heights  must  relate  to  the  general  character  of  houses  in  the  immediate 

locality and in the street. 

Storage 

P13   Storage  areas  in  roofs  of  single  dwellings  are  permitted  as  long  as  there  are  no 
permanent stairs and no dormer windows within the roof so as to ensure it does not 
appear as a habitable room. The roof may contain ventilated skylight windows. 

Setbacks 

Overview 

Setbacks define the overall footprint of a building and the outer walls in relation to the front, 
side  and  rear  boundaries.  Appropriate  street  setback  controls  can  contribute  to  the  public 
domain by enhancing the streetscape character and the continuity of street facades.  

Objectives 

O1 

To ensure that new single dwellings or alterations to existing single dwellings are of 
consistent scale and maintain the character of existing development in the street. 

Provisions 

P1  

Single dwellings must comply  with the minimum setback requirements as set out in 
the table below:  

164 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 – Setback Requirements for Single Dwelling Houses 

Front Setback 

(i)  Two storey 
(second storey 
component of the 
dwelling only)  

(ii)  Single storey  

Side Setback 

(i)  Two storey 
(second storey 
component of the 
dwelling only) 

9m 

Average  of  localised  existing  building 
line 

1.5m 

(ii)  Single storey 

900mm 

Except  for  the  common  wall  of  an  attached  dwelling  or  semi-
detached dwelling 

Rear Setback 

(i)  Two storey 
(second storey 
component of the 
dwelling only) 

6m 

(ii)  Single storey 

3m 

Corner Property Setbacks  

(i)  Main Street   
        Setback 

(ii)  Side Street 

Setback 

As  per  front  setback  for  street  to  which 
property  is  rated,  or  the  street  with  the 
narrower frontage. 

As per side setback 

(iii) Other two (2)  

As per side and rear setback 

boundaries 

P2 

P3 

All single dwellings must provide an eave overhang. The minimum width of the eave 
including the gutter must be 450mm. 

Council may consider a variation to reduce the eave heights, provided that there is no 
increased overshadowing. 

P4    Single dwellings must provide setbacks that are consistent with the existing setback. 

P5  

A  reduced  setback  which  utilises  existing  foundations  may  be  acceptable  for  single 
storey dwellings. 

P6    An  increased  front  setback may  be  required for  new  building  works  that  are  bulkier 

than the existing single dwellings on the adjoining sites. 

P7  

The  maximum  length  of  a  first  floor  elevation  of  a  single  dwelling  is  10m  along  its 
southern  elevation  where  it  is  provided  as  one  continuous  and  uniform  elevation 
(Refer to Figure 36). 

P8  Where  a  first  floor  elevation  is  greater  than  10m  along  the  southern  elevation,  that 
part  of the first floor  elevation  greater  than  10m  must  be  setback  a further  2m from 
the side building line (Refer to Figure 36). 

165 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P9    Encroachments  of  up  to  1.5m  into  the  9m  front  setback  of  the  first  floor  level  of  a 
single  dwelling  may  be  approved  for  architectural  elements  such  as  bay  windows, 
balconies, decorative timber and brick subject to the following: 

(i)  Minimal  adverse  impact  on  surrounding  properties  in  terms  of  overshadowing 

and privacy 

(ii)  High quality architectural design 

(iii)  Variation to the front setback not to exceed 50% of the width and height of the 

first floor front elevation 

P10   Ancillary  structures  such  as  garages,  sheds  and  the  like,  that  are  attached  to  the 
dwelling  on  a  site  must  be  setback  900mm  from  the  respective  side  boundary. 
Exceptions  may  be  given  for  open  structures  such  as  carports,  awnings  and 
pergolas, subject to compliance with the Building Code of Australia requirements. 

Floor Space Ratio and Built Area 

Overview 

Floor Space Ratio (FSR) and Built Area provisions aim to facilitate an acceptable bulk and 
scale of development. It is important to regulate the total size of single dwellings relative to 
allotment size in order to prevent over development. 

Objectives 

O1  

To control the building bulk of single dwellings and additions.  

O2 

O3 

To prevent over development occurring in the Burwood LGA. 

To  provide  for  a  site  layout  that gives  usable  open  area  and  a  building  form  that  is 
compatible in size with the surrounding areas. 

Provisions 

P1  

The maximum Floor Space Ratio (FSR) is set out in the Floor Space Ratio Map. FSR 
and its calculation are defined in the BLEP 2012. 

Advisory Note:  
For  calculating  the  Floor  Space  Ratio,  it  is  important  to  consult  the  definition  contained  in  clause  4.5(2)  of  the 
BLEP 2012, together with the definition of Gross Floor Area in the BLEP 2012 Dictionary. It should be noted that 
the calculation is taken from the internal face of walls and includes all buildings within a site. 

P2    The maximum Built Area is 67%.  

Built Area is determined to be the total floor area of all buildings relative to the area of 
the allotment of land, expressed as a percentage. The calculation of Built Area shall 
be taken from the external face of walls (i.e. includes wall thickness) and includes the 
area  of  each  floor  or  storey  balconies,  verandahs  and  the  like,  whether  covered  or 
uncovered,  open  or  enclosed  garages,  carports  and  covered  parking  (except 
basement  car  parking)  and  outbuildings.  Built  Area  excludes  outdoor  swimming 
pools, paths and exterior driveways.  

P3  

Irrespective of the allotment size, Council does not generally favour single dwellings 
exceeding  450  sqm  Built  Area.  Applicants  should  submit  written  justification  in 
support  of  larger  dwellings.  Buildings  above  this  size  will  generally  only  be  allowed 
where the allotment size and the character of the existing development in the area so 
warrants. 

166 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P4 

In an R1 and R3 zone, a maximum Built Area of over 67% may be considered having 
regard to  the  predominant  land  uses  in the  vicinity,  their  scale,  the  streetscape  and 
the impact of the proposal on surrounding development.  

Landscaped Areas 

Overview 

The  aesthetic  benefits  of  landscaping  are  well  recognised  and  can  be  seen  every  day  in 
gardens. Trees and plants add life, colour and variety. Landscaping can provide shade from 
the hot summer sun, screen unsightly views, protect us from strong winds, reduce both air 
and  noise  pollution,  provide  visual  privacy,  soften  buildings  or  structures  and  attract  native 
birds into a garden. Appropriate plantings on allotments can enhance the overall character of 
the street and add value to your property. 

Objectives 

O1    To ensure functional private outdoor spaces are provided for residents.  

O2    To encourage the preservation and integration of existing trees and natural features 

into the design of new development.   

O3 

O4 

O5 

To screen and soften the impact of buildings and improve the view along the street. 

To maximise winter sun and minimise summer sun. 

To help minimise stormwater runoff.  

Provisions 

P1 

P2 

P3 

A minimum 30% of the front setback (i.e. front yard) is to consist of soft landscaping. 

Rear yards will not be permitted to be dominated by hard landscaping. 

Paved or hard surfaces must be kept to a minimum and shall incorporate appropriate 
drainage  to  control  water  runoff  and  avoid  nuisance  to  adjoining  properties.  Paving 
materials must be selected to blend with both building materials and plantings. 

P4  Where  practical,  new  structures  must  be  positioned  to  provide for the retention  and 
protection  of  existing  significant  trees  and  other  natural  features. Where  removal  of 
existing  trees  is  proposed,  details  of  suitable  replacement  trees  are  to  be  provided. 
These  must  be  replaced  at  a  rate  of  one  new  tree  for  each  tree  removed,  or  as 
otherwise specified by Council’s Landscape Code. 

P5 

P6 

P7 

Cutting and filling is to be minimised as far as practicable. Fill material must be clean 
fill only and placed in such a manner so as not to disturb existing trees that are to be 
retained. The maximum permitted depth of fill on a site is 500mm. 

All  Development  Applications  for  new  dwellings  must  be  accompanied  with  a 
Landscape Plan as part of the application submission. 

All planting beds and mounds must be mulched to a depth of 50-75mm using coarse 
textured mulch. 

P8  

Plants that are declared noxious under the NSW Noxious Weeds Act 1993 must be 
identified and removed. 

167 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P9  

The siting of new buildings, structures, driveways and other hard surface areas must 
take into consideration impacts on the root zone of existing trees. 

P10  Tree species must be considered that provide shading in summer and solar access in 

winter.  

P11   Plant species should be chosen which have low water requirements.  

P12  New plantings must be complementary to the existing streetscape. 

P13  Aboveground  rainwater 

tanks  must  not  be 

installed 

in 

the 

front  setback. 

Consideration will be given to underground rainwater tanks in the front setback. 

Utility Services 

Objective 

O1  

To ensure that single dwellings are designed with water, sewerage and electricity 
requirements in mind.  

Provisions 

P1  

P2   

All water and sewerage pipes and duct work must not be visible from a public place 
and must meet Sydney Water’s requirements. 

Electricity  power  poles  placed  within  the  front  yard  of  the  house  must  be  treated  in 
colours that match the existing single dwelling and be to Council’s satisfaction.  

Drainage 

Objective 

O1  

To ensure that new development does not result in flooding issues on the site or 
adjacent properties. 

Provisions 

P1  

P2   

All drainage works must comply with Council’s Stormwater Management Code. 

Existing  natural  overland  stormwater  flow  paths  must  not  be  diverted  by  fencing, 
retaining walls, buildings, paved areas or any other form of construction. 

P3    New hard paved surfaces must be kept to a minimum to prevent stormwater runoff.  

P4   

P5   

P6   

Stormwater  runoff  from  roofs,  hard  surfaces,  swimming  pools  and  the  like  must  be 
collected,  piped  and  drained  to  the  kerb  or  an  inter-allotment  drainage  system. 
Charged  lines  are  permitted,  however  these  must  be  designed  by  a  practicing 
Hydraulic Engineer. 

Pits and pumps are generally not permitted, except within basement garages. 

Absorption trenches are generally not permitted.  

P7    Ground floor levels must be sufficiently elevated so as not to be subject to flooding.  

P8 

Soft landscaping and pervious surfaces must be maximised on the site.  

168 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P9 

A stormwater concept plan is required to be submitted to Council in accordance with 
Council’s Stormwater Management Code. 

Swimming Pools 

Objective 

O1  

To ensure that pools are properly located and secured in the interest of safety. 

Provisions 

P1  

P2   

P3   

P4   

P5   

P6   

P7   

The  private  open  space  must  be  useable  and  reasonably  sized  to  incorporate  a 
swimming pool. The pool area must not utilise the remaining private open space. 

Pool equipment must be located so as to minimise excessive noise impacts.  

The siting of the pool must minimise noise impacts and water splash on neighbouring 
properties.  

The landscape design must provide summer shade for pool users.  

The swimming pool area shall be fenced in conformity with the Swimming Pools Act 
1992, the Building Code of Australia (BCA) and Australian Standards AS 1926-2007 
Part 1 and 2 – Swimming Pool Safety.  

Swimming  pool  fencing  shall  separate  the  pool  from  the  dwelling,  outbuildings, 
structures and any adjoining premises or public place. 

A minimum setback of 1m must be provided from the water edge of the pool to the 
boundary. 

P8     Pools are not permitted in the front yard of a property.  

P9    No ancillary or other structures are permitted within the fenced pool area, except for 

diving boards or pool filter equipment. 

Fire Safety 

Objective 

O1  

To  ensure  that  all  new  building  work  provides  for  an  acceptable  level  of  safety  for 
residents in case of fire. 

Provisions 

P1   

P2   

P3   

External  walls  of  single  dwellings  and  other  structures  must  be  of  fire  resistant 
construction,  and  comply  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Building  Code  of 
Australia. 

Approved  smoke  alarms  must  be  installed  in  accordance  with  the  Building  Code  of 
Australia and Australian Standard AS 3786-1993 - Smoke Alarms. 

Effective setback and/or protection of structures from fire source features must be in 
accordance with the Building Code of Australia. 

Advisory Note:  
Please refer to Building Code of Australia for further information on fire safety. 

169 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demolition 

Objective 

O1   

To  ensure  that  the  demolition  of  structures  is  carried  out  in  an  effective  manner 
without affecting the health and amenity of the surrounding residents. 

Provisions 

P1  

P2  

P3  

P4  

P5  

All demolition must be carried out in accordance with Australian Standard AS 2601-
2001- The Demolition of Structures. 

All  building  materials  containing  asbestos  must  be  carefully  handled  and  removed 
from the site in accordance with WorkCover requirements. 

To  minimise  dust  and  debris  that  cause  an  unnecessary  hazard  and/or  damage  to 
surrounding properties, appropriate protective measures must be taken. 

To  minimise  sediment  movement  and  water  pollution  due  to  surface  run  off, 
protective environmental site management measures must be employed on site. 

To  minimise  damage  to  street  trees,  footpaths,  kerbing  and  road  pavements, 
protective measures must be employed. 

Earthworks 

Objectives 

O1  

O2  

To ensure that site works are safe and environmentally sound.  

To  ensure  that  adjoining  residents  are  not  detrimentally  affected  by  the  removal  of 
soil or rock.  

Provisions 

P1   

P2   

P3   

P4   

P5   

P6   

P7   

Adequate sedimentation control measures must be provided around sites to prevent 
polluted  surface  run  off  reaching  water  course  or  adjoining  land,  prior  to  the 
commencement of any work. 

To prevent earthworks from becoming dangerous to life or property, excavation must 
be adequately shored and guarded. 

Batters  or  underpinning  of  excavation  is  required  to  protect  structures  on  adjacent 
properties from ground surface movement. 

The  details  of  excavation  or  filling  of  land  must  be  included  in  the  Development 
Application. 

A dilapidation survey may be required to be carried out for excavations. 

In  excavated  areas  after  rain  periods,  seepage,  or  the  ponding  of  water  must  be 
collected and disposed of in an appropriate manner. 

The maximum permitted depth of fill on a site is 500mm. Cutting and filling is to be 
minimised  as  far  as  practicable.  Fill  materials  must  be  clean  fill  only  and  placed  in 
such a manner so as not to disturb existing trees that are to be retained. 

170 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5.2 Ancillary Structures 

Overview 

Garages,  carports  and  other  ancillary  structures  should  be  designed  as  part  of  a  holistic 
approach to the property rather than in isolation. It is important that garages and carports do 
not dominate the appearance of a dwelling from the street frontage and do not compromise 
the aesthetic relationship of the front garden and the streetscape.  

Advisory Note:  
There  are  further  provisions  relating  to  vehicle  parking,  garages  and  carports  in  respect  to  heritage  items  and 
properties in a heritage conservation area. (Refer to Section 4.7) 

Garages 

Objectives 

O1  

O2  

To recognise the needs of residents to erect garages.  

To minimise the size, bulk and scale of garages. 

Provisions 

P1 

Garages must not be erected within the established dwelling setbacks and the street 
alignment.  

P2   Garage floor to ceiling height must not exceed 2.5m.  

P3 

P4 

P5 

The height of the garage door must not exceed 2.1m.  

The external wall height must not exceed 2.7m above natural ground level.  

The slope of the roof of a garage must not exceed 25 degrees to the horizontal.  

P6  Where the proposed detached garage is given special permission to be closer than 
450mm to the rear or side boundaries, a peg out survey showing the footprint of the 
building  must  be  undertaken  prior  to  the  pouring  of  the  footings/slab,  and  a  final 
survey report showing the exact location of eaves and gutters to the boundaries must 
be submitted to Council or the Principal Certifying Authority upon completion. 

P7 

P8 

Garage  door  openings  including  intermediate  piers  must  not  exceed  40%  of  the 
entire width of the front elevation of the single dwelling. 

To  prevent  domination  of  the  front  elevation,  attached  garages  must  be  setback 
further from the single dwelling. 

P9  Where a double garage is proposed forward, or within the front, of a single dwelling, 
the double garage doors must face the side boundary and have an adequate turning 
circle  for  safe  entry  and  exit  to  the  garage.  Garage  wall  facades  facing  the  street 
must incorporate residential architectural features such as windows.  

P10   A minimum 900mm side and 3m rear boundary setback is required for garage walls 

attached to a single dwelling.  

P11  Council will not require written concurrence from an adjoining property owner to erect 
a  garage  adjacent  to  a  boundary  where  the  proposed  garage  is  of  masonry 

171 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
construction and is set back a minimum distance of 150mm from the respective side 
or rear boundary so as to enable the erection of a dividing fence.  

P12  Clad walls must be set back a minimum of 450mm from the side and rear boundaries 

to enable maintenance to be carried out.  

P13  Notwithstanding P11 and P12 above, any garage or outbuilding  with a floor area of 
60 sqm or more, or a continuous wall length of 8m or more, must be a minimum of 
900mm off all side and rear boundaries.  

P14   Where  a  garage  constructed  of  brick  is  located  adjacent  to  the  boundary,  no 
openings  will  be  permitted  on  the  wall  located  on  the  boundary  for  privacy  and 
acoustic reasons.  

P15  Garages must be designed to be sympathetic to the existing character and design of 

the single dwelling in terms of roof pitch, materials and finishes.  

P16  Cladding must consist of masonry, sheet metal (e.g. Colorbond), painted zincalume 
or similar non reflective material. These materials must be compatible with the single 
dwelling on the site and consistent with the character of the immediate environment. 

P17   Roof  cladding  must  consist  of  tiles,  slates,  sheet  metal  (e.g.  Colorbond),  painted 
zincalume,  metal  or  other  approved  non-reflective  roof  material.  These  materials 
must  be  compatible  with  the  single  dwelling  on  the  site  and  be  consistent  with  the 
character of the immediate environment. 

P18  The colours of roof and wall cladding must generally be of neutral tones, compatible 
with  the single  dwelling on  the  site  and  environmentally  sensitive  so  as  to minimise 
visual impact on the area.  

P19  Garages are subject to a stormwater concept plan and stormwater must be collected, 
piped and drained to the kerb or inter – allotment drainage system in accordance with 
the Stormwater Management Code. A Stormwater Concept Plan in accordance with 
Council’s  Stormwater  Management  Code  is  to  be  submitted  with  DA’s  for  any 
ancillary structures. 

P20  Garages  with  vehicular  access  from  side  or  rear  lanes  and  streets  must  have  a 
minimum  front,  rear  or  both  boundary  setback  of  1.4m.  Any  fencing  between  the 
garage and the alignment on this boundary must be splayed at a 45° angle. 

P21  Basement  garages  must  be  confined  to  the  building  envelope.  Adequate  provision 

must be made for a deep soil zone and landscaped area. 

P22  Garages  must  not  be  used  or  adapted  for  residential,  industrial  or  commercial 

purposes without prior Council approval.  

P23  Amenities  such  as  a  shower,  toilet  or  hand  wash  basin  will  only  be  permitted to  be 
installed  within  a  garage  under  specific  circumstances,  and  at  Council’s  discretion. 
Access to these amenities shall be by an externally-accessed door (e.g. opening onto 
the rear yard), as opposed to being accessed from the interior garage space, such to 
discourage use of the structure as a separate dwelling. 

P24  Studios  or  habitable  rooms  will  not  be  permitted  above  a  detached  garage  or 
outbuilding.  The  use  of  the  roof  space  for  storage  may  be  permitted  subject  to  the 
provision of non-permanent access (e.g. pull-down ladder) and Council’s satisfaction 
that the  storage  space  does  not contribute to the  scale  or  bulk  of  the structure,  nor 
adversely affect the amenity of neighbouring properties. 

172 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carports 

Objectives 

O1  

O2  

O3  

To  achieve  a  design  that  is  sympathetic  with  the  streetscape  and  the  subject  and 
adjoining single dwellings. 

To recognise the needs of residents to erect carports.  

To minimise the size, bulk and scale of carports. 

Provisions 

Carports Behind Building Line 

P1  

It  is  preferable  that  carports  be  erected  in  the  rear  yard  of  a  property  and  not  be 
erected between the wall of a single dwelling and the side boundary of the allotment. 

P2   Where a carport is erected on the side of the single dwelling: 

It may be attached to the side wall of the single dwelling and extend to the boundary line. 
The carport roofline must be set back 500mm from the side boundary line. Supporting posts 
and  beams  are  permitted  adjacent  to  the  boundary.  Refer  to  Part  3.7.1.6  of  the  Building 
Code of Australia (BCA) for further information. 

The carport must stand clear of a side boundary fence (i.e. carports must not be attached to 
the fence) and there must be a clear space between the underside of the roof structure and 
any fence. 

Where it adjoins the side wall of a single dwelling, it must not be infilled at its side or ends. 
It may be enclosed at the front with open ornamental-type metal gates for security purposes. 

Carport Forward of the Building Line 

P3  

Carports  may  be  permitted  between  the  building  line  and  the  street  alignment 
provided: 

 
 
The driveway to the rear of the site is less than 2.4m wide. 

The driveway  width to the rear of the site is between 2.4m and 2.6m, but it is 
not feasible to provide parking in the rear yard. 

  Where  a  side  boundary  fence  exists  or  is  proposed,  the  carport  must  stand 
clear of such a fence (i.e. it must not be attached to the fence) and there must 
be a clear space between the underside of the roof structure and any fence. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
There is no interference or obstruction to the natural lighting or ventilation of the 
subject and adjoining single dwellings. 

There is no interference or obstruction to users of the roadway or pedestrians. 

The carport must not be enclosed. 

Any gates must not open onto the footpath. 

The carport must be compatible with the streetscape. 

The carport must not adversely affect the style and character of the front façade 
of the building. 

Advisory Note:  
Separate provisions apply to a carport if it pertains to a heritage item or a property within a heritage conservation 
area. 

173 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carport Dimensions 

P4 

Minimum dimension for a carport must be 5m x 2.5m. 

P5   Maximum dimension for a carport must be 6m x 3m.  

P6   Maximum  height  of  a  carport  must  be  2.4m,  measured  from  the  floor  level  to  the 

outside surface of the roof cover. 

Vehicular Access via Side or Rear Lanes 

P7  

Carports  with  vehicular  access  from  side  or  rear  lanes  and  streets  must  have  a 
minimum  boundary  setback  of  1.4m.  Any  fencing  between  the  carport  and  the 
alignment must be splayed at a 45o angle. 

Design 

Consideration must be given to the design and appearance of a carport and its effect 
upon the general appearance of the single dwelling and the streetscape. 

Carports  located  in  front  of  or  near  the  front  of  the  single  dwelling  must  have 
supporting  posts  that  are  architecturally  compatible  with  the  single  dwelling.  These 
supporting posts must have a 50mm diameter or 50mm square metal section 

P8  

P9  

Levels 

P10   Where the carport is proposed to be located near the street alignment, the levels of a 
carport floor must be obtained from Council’s Assets, Design and Contracts section 
and must be strictly adhered to. 

Other Ancillary Structures  

General 

Objectives 

O1    To recognise the needs of residents to erect ancillary structures. 

O2  

O3 

To minimise the size, bulk and scale of ancillary structures. 

To provide clear provisions for other ancillary structures that do not include garages 
or carports. 

Provisions 

P1 

Any  garage  or  outbuilding  with  a  floor  area  of  60  sqaurre  metres    more,  or  a 
continuous wall length of 8 metres or more, must be setback a minimum of 900mm 
from all side and rear boundaries. This control seeks to limit the impact of substantial 
outbuildings on adjoining properties, and discourages outbuildings which are in close 
proximity  to  multiple  boundaries.  This  control  will  also  be  applied  to  any  new  work 
where the combined floor area of all outbuildings exceeds 60 square metres. 

174 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Figure 36(a): Boundary Setbacks for Substantial Outbuildings 

P2    Where  multiple  ancillary  structures  are  proposed  upon  a  property,  combining  these 

uses within a single structure is encouraged. 

P3 

P4 

The  controls  applying  to  garages  will  generally  be  applied  to  other  ancillary 
structures, such as sheds, studios, cabanas and the like. 

Amenities  such  as  a  shower,  toilet  or  hand  wash  basin  will  only  be  permitted to  be 
installed  within  an  outbuilding  under  specific  circumstances,  and  at  Council’s 
discretion.  Access  to  these  amenities  shall  be  by  an  externally-accessed  door  (e.g. 
opening onto the rear yard), as opposed to being accessed from the interior space, 
such to discourage use of the structure as a separate dwelling. 

Front and Side Fences 

Objectives 

O1 

To ensure that fencing is appropriate to the scale and character of the street, as 
well as the single dwelling. 

Advisory Note:  
There may be additional provisions which apply to a fence if it pertains to a heritage item or a property within a 
heritage conservation area. (Refer to 4.7) 

Provisions 

Consideration of Development Applications Generally 

P1 

In dealing with a Development Application for a front and/or side fence, Council must 
consider the following before making its decision: 

(i) 

the general appearance  

(ii) 

its likely effect on adjoining properties 

(iii) 

its likely effect on the streetscape 

175 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(iv) 

its likely effect on traffic 

(v)  whether  the  design  of  the  fence  is  consistent  with  the  external  appearance  of 

the house 

(vi) 

the need for splays where vehicular entrances are involved 

P2    Material and finishes must complement the style of the single dwelling. 

P3    Demolition  of  fences  is  allowed  without  the  approval  of  Council  except  for  heritage 

properties (i.e. heritage conservation areas and heritage items).  

P4   

Fencing is not to impinge upon pedestrian and vehicular sightlines. 

P5  Where a Development Application relates to a corner allotment, the corner must be 
splayed to the satisfaction of Council’s Traffic and Transport section. A fence in such 
a position will not be permitted if its erection will create a traffic hazard. 

Height 

P6  

The height of front fencing measured from existing ground level and taken from the 
public footpath side, shall satisfy the following:  

(i) 
The maximum height of a picket or other similar open style fencing is 1.2m.   
(ii)  The maximum height of masonry or solid form fencing is 900mm. This includes 
courtyard fences where the courtyard is on or near the street alignment and not 
constructed or setback as provided in items (iii) and (iv) below. 

(iii)  1.8m front fencing  is  permitted provided  that this fencing  is  of  a  design where 
brickwork does not exceed 900mm in height and the remaining height is open 
style  construction.  Exceptions  may  be  granted  on  arterial  roads  such  as 
Liverpool Road, The Boulevarde, Coronation Parade, Burwood Road, Georges 
River Road and Parramatta Road. 

(iv)  A  straight  flush  1.8m  high  fence  is  not  acceptable.  Notwithstanding  P6  (iii), 
1.8m  high  fences  may  be  permitted  subject  to  articulation  above  or  the 
provision  of  landscaping  to  provide  visual  relief.  Alternatively,  the  fence  is  set 
back at least 1.5m from the street alignment. 

Materials  

P7  

The  external  face  of  the  fence  must  be  of  a  good  quality,  with  a  low  maintenance 
finish. 

Landscaping 

P8 

The area between a fence and the street alignment must be suitably landscaped with 
low maintenance landscaping. 

Levels 

P9 

Footings for front fencing must be constructed at or below footpath alignment levels 
and  must  not  encroach on  the  footpath  as  set  out  by  Council’s  Assets,  Design  and 
Contracts section. 

Side Boundary Fences 

P10  Side boundary fences must taper (reduce) in height where they are located forward 

of the front building line to the point where they meet the front boundary fencing.  

176 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P11   Side  boundary  fences  forward  of  the  building  line  may  be  of  low  ornamental  type 
fences,  open  style  fences  or  fencing  of  the  same  height  and  design  of  those 
approved for the front property boundary. 

P12  Side  boundary  fences  are  not  to  exceed  1.8m  in  height  behind  the  single  dwelling 
and must not be constructed of pressed metal or exposed concrete block work. 

Attached and Semi-Detached Dwellings 

P13  Common walls on the boundary will only be permitted where proposed in connection 
with an attached dwelling or semi-detached dwelling development, and where the DA 
comprises redevelopment of both sides of the shared boundary.  

P14  Council  encourages  fence  designs  which  apply  to  all  frontages  within  an  attached 

and semi-detached dwelling development. 

P15  Cross  easements  for  support  and  stormwater  drainage  must  be  created  where 

necessary and be in place prior to the issue of an Occupation Certificate.   

P16  Fire rating and sound transmission characteristics of common walls must comply with 

the BCA/NCC. 

Advisory Note:  
Attached  and  semi-detached  dwellings  are  required  to  comply  with  all  other  provisions  of  Section  4.5  of  the 
BDCP   

Security 

P17  Front  gates  must  be  on,  or  close  to,  the  front  boundary  or  the  front  of  the  building. 

They must also be visible from front windows. 

P18  Fence design must avoid creating entrapment spots. 

P19   Surface treatment of fences must use vandal resistant treatments such as paint and 

stain resistant finishes. 

P20  Double glazing must be considered as an alternative to a high solid fence to achieve 

noise insulation. 

Advisory Note:  
The  provisions  of  the  Dividing  Fences  Act  are  to  be  observed  in  regard  to  fences,  on  the  dividing  boundary 
between two properties.  

177 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6 

Transport and Parking in Residential Developments 

Strategic Approach 

Development in all of the zones under the BLEP 2012 will, over time and to differing extents, 
add  to  the  demand  for  travel,  and  place  additional  pressure  on  the  transport  system  and 
parking supply in the Burwood LGA.   

Local policy on transport, traffic and parking needs to respond to the challenges of providing 
on-site  parking  while  managing  impacts  on  neighbourhoods.  Higher  density  developments 
especially  in  the  R1  and  R2  zones  should  assist  in  the  management  of  travel  demand 
through  increased  utilisation  of  Burwood’s  substantial  public  transport  facilities,  and  of 
opportunities for mobility by walking and cycling. 

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

O3 

O4 

O5 

Ensure the appropriate provision of secure and accessible parking supply to meet the 
needs of users in the residential zones. 

Increase the use of public transport, walking and cycling for trips generated by new 
development. 

Support Council’s on-street parking strategy in the Burwood Public Parking Strategy 
2010 and its successors in respect of land around the Town Centres. 

Require  a  broader  assessment  of  transport,  traffic  and  parking  factors  in  the 
Development Application process. 

Ensure  the  design  of  parking  areas  of  developments  meets  appropriate  criteria  for 
vehicular and pedestrian safety and personal security, and the needs of people with 
disabilities, and provides appropriate facilities for cyclists and pedestrians. 

O6 

Encourage  the  provision  of  parking  supply  that  contributes  to  the  enhancement  of 
development on sites and the quality of the streetscape. 

O7  Manage  the  impacts  of  impervious  surfaces  and  the  excavation  of  basements  for 
residential developments and provide greater opportunity for deep soil planting. 

Provisions 

P1 

Basic parking requirement: Development in the R1, R2 and R3 zones must provide 
parking  spaces  on  site  for  each  proposed  land  use  in  accordance  with  Table  4.  All 
parking generated by the development is to be provided on site, including any visitors 
parking.  Contributions  in  lieu  of  onsite  provision  of  parking  will  not  be  accepted  in 
residential zones. 

P2 

Compliance with Australian Standards: The design and construction of on-site: 
 
Parking areas and parking spaces 

 
 
Service and loading/unloading areas 

Access to, from and within these facilities 

are  to  comply  with  the  applicable  Australian  Standards.  These  Standards  cover  a 
range  of  technical  requirements  including  design  elements,  dimensions,  gradients, 

178 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
headroom,  curves,  delivery  and  service  areas,  and  special  requirements  for  people 
with disabilities.  

The applicable standards are the most recent versions (at the time of the application) 
of: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AS 2890.1 Part 1: Off-street car parking. 

AS 2890.2 Part 2: Off-street commercial vehicle facilities. 

AS 2890.3 Part 3: Bicycle parking facilities. 

AS 2890.5 Part 5: On-street parking. 

AS 2890.6 Part 6: Off-street parking for people with disabilities. 

AS 1428.1: Design for access and mobility. 

AS  1735.12:  Lifts,  escalators  and  moving  walks  -  Facilities  for  persons  with 
disabilities. 

P3   Other requirements for single dwelling houses and development involving two 

dwellings on one allotment in Residential zones: 

 
 
 
 
Generally only one driveway per property is permitted.  

Circular driveways will be permitted on large lots that have a minimum site area 
of  900m²  and  have  a  minimum  street  frontage  of  20m.  The  circular  driveway 
where  appropriate  must  also  address  controls  within  the  BDCP  such  as 
Building  Appearance,  Streetscape,  Heritage,  Landscaped  Areas,  Vehicle 
Footpath Crossing, Garages and Carports.  

Paving  of  vehicular  access  ways  and  car  parking  spaces  must  be  kept  to  a 
minimum to maximise soft landscaping and minimise stormwater runoff. 

Excavations  for  basement  garage  must  be  limited  to  the  perimeter  of  the 
proposed dwelling(s). Exceptions may be given to narrow sites (less than 11m 
in width).  

P4 

Other  requirements  for  residential  flat  buildings,  multi  dwelling  housing  and 
shop top housing in Residential zones:  
 
Parking spaces shall not be permitted above the ground, between the building 
and the street alignment.  

  Where  car  parking  spaces  are  provided  below  the  natural  ground  level  of  the 
site, and roofed over and reinstated with lawn and landscaping, the reinstated 
roof area shall not project more than 0.75m above the adjoining natural ground 
level and shall be blended into the site, to the satisfaction of Council.  

 
 
 
Garage  doors  shall  not  dominate  the  front  elevation  of  the  development,  shall 
be of a scale and position so as to create visual interest and not conflict with the 
character of other residential buildings in the street.  

Garage entrances shall be located to the side wall behind the façade main wall 
of the building, or to the rear of the allotment. If an entrance is at the front of the 
building facing the street, it must have an automatic closing door to conceal the 
opening from any public place. 

All  car  parking  spaces,  garages  and  vehicle  manoeuvring  driveways  shall  be 
designed  so  that  vehicles  can  easily  enter  and  leave  the  premises  by 
movement in a forward direction.  

  Where  large  areas  of  paving  are  required  for  driveways,  turning  and  parking 
areas, these shall be treated with a variation of paving, inter-planting with grass 
in perforated cellular slabs or landscaping to give a visual break to such areas. 

179 

 
 
 
 
 
Vehicular access points must have high quality finishes to walls and ceilings as 
well as high standard detailing. Service ducts or pipes must not be visible from 
the street. 

Proposals  to  extend  basement  parking  levels  from  private  development  sites 
into  the  areas  of  Council’s  road  reserves  will  not  be  supported. This  is  due  to 
the practical, technical and legal constraints and complexities in implementation 
of this action by both Council and the private site developer. 

P5 

Vehicular Access and Footpath Crossings 
 
Vehicular  access  for  development  must  be  provided  from  lanes  and  minor  or 
secondary  streets  where  available,  rather  than  major  streets  or  Classified 
Roads. 

 
 
Vehicular access and footpath crossings must be minimised where provided the 
safety of pedestrians and cyclists must be maintained and there should  be no 
more impacts on bus operations. 

Vehicular  access  must  have  a  nominal  width  of  2.7  metres  over  the  footpath, 
and be perpendicular to the kerb alignment.  

P6 

Automated or Mechanical Car Stacking 

Installation  of  automated  or  mechanical  car  parking  systems  to  meet  car  parking 
requirements for developments is not supported. Experience with and observation of 
these  systems  indicates  significant  potential  for  adverse  impacts  arising  from  slow 
operation causing vehicle queuing, vehicle size constraints that are not appropriate in 
Australia,  and  unreliability  in  cases  of  mechanical,  hydraulic  or  electrical  failure. 
Provision  of  free-standing  spaces  accessed  by  ramps  is  preferred.  If  restricted  site 
size  limits  provision  of  traditional  on-site  parking,  consideration  should  be  given  to 
consolidation of lots to create a larger development site. 

P7 

Plans  and  reports  on  transport,  traffic  and  parking  to  support  Development 
Applications:  To  provide  adequate  information  for  the  assessment  of  proposals, 
Development  Applications  are  to  be  supported  by  one  of  the  following  reports, 
depending on the scale and impact of the proposal. 

1.  Major Development - Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact Report and Management 

Plans 

Major  Development,  for  the  purposes  of  this  subsection,  means  any  residential 
accommodation  (as  defined  in  the  BLEP  2012)  comprising  30  or  more  dwellings  on 
the one site, or as otherwise determined by Council for development in a Residential 
zone.  

A  Development  Application  for  Major  Development  in  a  Residential  zone  is  to  be 
accompanied  by  a  Transport,  Traffic  and  Parking  Impact  Report  and  Management 
Plan  prepared  by  a  suitably  qualified  and  experienced  professional  in  traffic  and 
transport, addressing the following matters: 
  The  proposed  development  and  its  suitability  in  terms  of  transport,  traffic  and 

parking impact 

  The existing parking and traffic conditions 
  The proposed traffic, parking and vehicle access arrangements 
  The accessibility of public transport services, and walking and cycling facilities  
  The  impact  of  the  development  on  the  surrounding  street  network  and  intended 

measures to ameliorate or manage that impact 

  The  impact  of  the  proposed  development  on  the  efficient  and  safe  operation  of 

bus services and passenger access 

  The design and compliance with the applicable Australian Standards in P2 above 
  Pedestrian  and  cyclist  safety,  personal  security  and  safe  access  from  parking 

areas to activities on the site 

180 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Signage and visual accessibility during day and night periods 
  Provision for loading, unloading and service vehicles 
  Provision for parking of bicycles and facilities for use of cyclists 
  A  management  plan  covering  management  of  traffic  impacts  and  intended 
measures to encourage public transport use, walking and cycling, and to manage 
travel demand 

  Consistency with general aims and zone objectives of the BLEP 2012  
  Consistency with the aims and objectives of this BDCP set out in Section 2 
  Compliance with the applicable requirements of this BDCP Part. 

2.  Other Development - Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact Report 

A  Development  Application  in  a  Residential  zone  which  is  not  Major  Development 
(and excluding small scale residential development comprising 1-2 dwellings or other 
small  scale  development  as  determined  by  Council)  is  to  be  accompanied  by  a 
Transport,  Traffic  and  Parking  Impact  Report  prepared  by  a  suitably  qualified  and 
experienced professional in traffic and transport, addressing the following matters:  
  The proposed development 
  The existing parking and traffic conditions and public transport conditions 
  The proposed traffic, parking and access arrangements 
  The  impact  of  the  development  on  traffic  conditions  in  the  surrounding  street 

network and intended measures to ameliorate or manage that impact 

  The  intended  measures  to  encourage  public  transport  use,  walking  and  cycling, 

and reduce the use of private motor cars 

  Compliance with the applicable requirements of this BDCP 
  Consistency with the aims and objectives of this BDCP set out in Section 2.  

P8  

Cycling  

Increased  use  of  cycle  travel  to,  from  and  within  Burwood’s  Residential  zones  can 
help reduce reliance on private cars and improve public health. Burwood Council and 
the Inner West Sub-region have suitable terrain and the network of local and regional 
cycle paths is under continuous improvement. The following requirements apply: 

 
 
 
Standards  for  the  number  of  bicycle  parking  facilities  are  provided  in  Cycling 
Aspects  of  Austroads  Guides  (Austroads  and  Standards  Australia  1999)  and 
Planning Guidelines for Walking and Cycling (Department of Planning and the 
Roads and Traffic Authority 2004) developments must demonstrate compliance 
with the requirements of either of these publications. 

Design  of  bicycle  parking  facilities  (racks  and  lockers)  must  be  in  accordance 
with the provisions of Australian Standard 2890.3 – Parking Facilities or Cycling 
Aspects of Austroads Guides.  

Bicycle parking devices must meet the following general requirements: 

­  Enable wheels and frame to be locked to the device without damaging the 

vehicle. 

­  Be well located and lit for security purposes. 
­  Be  in  a  convenient  and  accessible  location  outside  pedestrian  and  vehicle 

movement paths. 

­  Be protected from motor vehicle movements and useable without damaging 

other bicycles. 

­  Be protected from the weather. 
­  Designed to fit in with the development. 

P9 

Active Travel Demand Management 

Travel  demand  management  initiatives  should  be  employed  in  substantial  new 
developments in Residential zones to reduce car based travel and make greater use 

181 

 
 
 
 
 
of public transport, cycling, walking and car sharing for commuting and work related 
journeys.  The  objective  is  to  ensure  that  substantial  developments  assess  their 
impacts on travel demand and incorporate measures to encourage more sustainable 
travel. 

 
 
Development  that  comprises  Major  Development  must  include  a  Travel 
Demand  Management  section  in  the  Transport,  Traffic  and  Parking  Impact 
Report and Management Plan to accompany the DA. Major Development is as 
defined in P6 above. 

Examples of initiatives to be considered in the section include: 

­  Ensuring pedestrian safety and personal security within the development. 
­  Providing  bicycle  parking  facilities,  with  adequate  access  and  personal 

security. 

­  Making  information  available  for  occupants  about  public  transport  options 

available in the Burwood area that are relevant to the development. 

Table 4 - Car Parking Rates in Residential Zones 

Applies to zones: 

R1 General Residential 

R2 Low Density Residential 

R3 Medium Density Residential 

Car  Parking  Rates  Applying  Where  The 
Land Use Is Permitted In The Zones 

requirement, 

General 
-  The  stated  parking  provision  rates  are  the 
except  where 

minimum 
indicated otherwise for a specific land use. 
-  Calculation of the number of parking spaces 
required for a development is determined by 
rounding  up  to  the  nearest  whole  number 
where the decimal point is 0.5 and above, or 
rounded down to the nearest whole number 
where the decimal point is below 0.5. 

Land Use 

Notes and other 
requirements 

-  All  parking  is  to  be  provided  on  the  site  of 
the  development  unless  where  indicated 
otherwise for a specific land use. 
In  all  cases  the  square  metre  areas  in  the 
Table refer to gross floor area as defined in 
the BLEP 2012. 

- 

NB: All parking for all 
developments in 
residential zones must 
be provided on site 

Residential Accommodation Category and Related 

  One space per dwelling 

Dwelling houses, 
attached dwellings, 
semi-detached 
dwellings, secondary 
dwellings, dual 
occupancies  

182 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Multi dwelling 
housing,  
residential flat 
buildings, 
shop top housing 

Parking for residents 
  One space per unit up to two bedrooms 
(including studio or bed-sitter units) 

  Two spaces per three or more bedroom unit. 

Parking for visitors to residents of the 
development 
  One space per five units 

  These rates are the 

minimum and 
maximum 
requirements 

  For the purposes of 
calculating visitors 
parking, a studio or 
bedsitter unit is 
counted as half a 
unit 

Hostels, boarding 
houses 

Parking for residents 
  One space per 10 residents 

Seniors housing 

Group homes 

Home businesses 
and home industries 

Parking for employees or caretakers 
  One space per two employees or caretakers 

Refer to parking requirements specified in State 
Environmental Planning Policy – Housing for 
Seniors or People with a Disability 2004. 

Refer to parking requirements specified in State 
Environmental Planning Policy (Affordable 
Rental Housing) 2009 
  As per requirements for dwelling houses, 

attached dwellings, semi-detached dwellings, 
secondary dwellings, dual occupancies 
  Plus one space for employees not residing 

on site 

Tourist and Visitor Accommodation Category and Related 
  One space per accommodation unit 
  Two spaces for employees involved in the 

Bed and breakfast 
accommodation 

Serviced apartments 

Other not defined 

Tourist and visitor accommodation business 

Commercial Premises Category and Related 

Retail Premises Subgroup and Related 

Neighbourhood 
shops 

  One space per 50 sqm in all zones 

Community Category and Related 

Educational 
establishments 

  For primary and secondary schools - one 

space per classroom 

  For tertiary establishments in Business zones 

– as for Business premises in the zone 
  For tertiary establishments in other zones -  
­  Where the site is within 400m of a rail 

station, as for Business premises in the 
Business zone adjacent to the station 
­  Where the site is more than 400m from a 
rail station, one space per full time 
equivalent employee and one space per 
10 students 

183 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Child care centres 

  As determined case-by-case on the basis of 
a Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact 
Report and Management Plan prepared by 
the applicant, taking into account the 
following guidelines 

  One space per staff member 
  Adequate access and turning facilities for 

short-stay set-down and pick-up of children, 
based on one space per four licensed children 

Community facilities 

  As determined by Council’s Management 

Plan for the specific facility 

Places of public 
worship 

  One space per 10 seats where fixed seating 

  These rates are the 

is provided 

  One space per 18 sqm where fixed seating is 

not provided 

minimum and 
maximum 
requirements 

Respite day care 
centres 

  One space per four persons of maximum 

capacity 

Recreation areas 
Recreation facilities 
(indoor) 

  Access and turning facilities for short-stay 

set-down and pick-up of attendees 

  As determined case-by-case on the basis of 
a Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact 
Report and Management Plan prepared by 
the applicant 

Health Services Facilities Subgroup 

Health consulting 
rooms 
medical centres 

Hospitals 

Miscellaneous  

Any land use or 
activity not covered 
by any of the above 

  Four spaces per health care professional 

(doctor, dentist or other) being one space for 
the health care professional, one space for 
an employee and two spaces for patients  

  As determined by Council having regard to a 
Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact Report 
and Management Plan, or a Transport, 
Traffic and Parking Impact Report, as 
applicable prepared by the applicant 

  As determined by Council having regard to a 
Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact Report 
and Management Plan, or a Transport, 
Traffic and Parking Impact Report, as 
applicable 

Mixed uses 

  As determined from this Table for the 

requirements of the individual land uses 
involved 

  Council may obtain a 
peer review of the 
Report at the 
applicant’s expense 

184 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7 

Heritage in Residential Precincts 

4.7.1  

Introduction 

This  section  applies  to  the  development  of  heritage  items  (including  potential  or  draft 
heritage items), properties in a Heritage Conservation Area, and development in the vicinity 
of a heritage item or conservation area where the developable property or heritage property 
is located in a residential area.  

A  reference  to  ‘heritage  property’  herein  means  a  property  containing  a  heritage  item, 
potential or draft heritage item, or a property within a Heritage Conservation Area. Heritage 
items and heritage conservation areas are listed in Schedule 5 of the BLEP 2012. 

Where  a  development  involves  business,  commercial  or  office  activities,  the  heritage 
controls under Section 3.8 may also be applied. 

4.7.2   Heritage Controls  

It  is  important  to  conserve  the  heritage  properties  in  the  Burwood  LGA.  Many  of  these 
properties are dwelling houses that are located in a residential precinct or conservation area 
of  similar  buildings,  or  they  may  be  individual  houses  which  have  been  heritage  listed  by 
virtue  of  their  own  significance.  In  conserving  our  heritage,  Council  seeks  to  ensure  that 
future  generations  will  be  able  to  understand  and  visualise  Burwood’s  past  through  the 
physical evidence of important buildings, places and development patterns.  

Where  alterations  and  additions  are  proposed  to  heritage  properties,  the  works  should  be 
sympathetic to the heritage significance of the property. Alterations and additions should be 
undertaken  in  such  a  way  that  minimise  impacts  on  the  heritage  property.  Demolition  of 
heritage properties is generally discouraged.  

The Appian Way Heritage Conservation Area and Malvern Hill Heritage Conservation Area 
represent  Burwood’s  longest  established  and  possibly  most  intact  conservation  precincts. 
Additional controls apply to these two precincts. (Refer to Section 4.7.4)  

Objectives 

O1  

O2  

O3  

O4 

To  support  the  retention  of  heritage  properties  and  maintain  their  heritage 
significance.  

To ensure that alterations or additions to heritage properties are sympathetic to the 
heritage significance of the property and in keeping with its character. 

To  ensure  that  any  alterations  or  additions  to  heritage  properties  reflect  the 
predominant  scale,  height,  proportion,  character  and  setbacks  of  the  existing 
property, and surrounding development.  

To ensure that development located in the vicinity of a heritage property is designed 
and sited in a manner sympathetic to the significance of the heritage property and its 
setting.  

Provisions 

General  

P1 

Development Applications that propose alterations or additions to, or demolition of, a 
heritage  property  are  required  to  submit  a  heritage  report,  known  as  a  Heritage 

185 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Impact  Statement  (HIS),  prepared  by  a  qualified  and  recognised  heritage 
professional as part of the application to Council. This report shall detail the impacts 
of  the  proposed  development  on  the  heritage  significance  of  the  property.  Council 
may, at its discretion, require a Conservation Management Plan (CMP), instead of a 
HIS. 

P2   Where  substantial  demolition  is  proposed,  the  HIS  would  be  required  to  provide 
justification  on  heritage  grounds  and  demonstrate  that  options  for  retention  have 
been  investigated.  An  assessment  of  significance  must  include  a  comparative 
analysis  of  the  building  in  relation  to  others  of  its  kind  in  the  local  area.  Claims 
concerning physical condition are required to be supported by a Structural Engineer’s 
report. Conclusions should be based upon the heritage significance of the property, 
not on the development potential of the land it is situated upon. 

P3 

P4 

Council will require the submission of a heritage statement, prepared in accordance 
with  the  NSW  Heritage  Branch  guideline  Statements  of  Heritage  Impact,  where 
development is proposed adjacent to a heritage property. 

Major re-development of a heritage property shall have regard to the NSW Heritage 
Branch’s  Design  in  Context:  Guidelines  for  Infill  Development  in  the  Historic 
Environment. 

P5  Where  demolition  is  proposed  of  a  non-contributory  structure  within  a  heritage 
conservation  area,  Council  may  require  that the proposed replacement  structure  be 
submitted  as  part  of  the  same  Development  Application  in  order  to  ensure 
sympathetic outcomes. 

Building Design Considerations  

P6  

Development of a heritage property must:  

(i)   Be sympathetic in terms of its scale and character  

(ii)   Employ materials and detailing that responds to the traditional form and style of 

the existing structure 

(iii)   Provide  adequate  setbacks,  and  maintain  a  setting  around  the  heritage 

property, to facilitate the item’s interpretation.  

A  heritage  property  that forms  part  of  a group  of  similar  buildings  or  is  located  in  a 
heritage  conservation  area  must  be  designed  with  strict  regard  to  the  predominant 
characteristics of the area in terms of building height, building and street alignment, 
building form, scale and architectural character.  

Alterations  and  additions  to  a  heritage  property  must  not  dominate  the  character  of 
the existing structure, nor be of excessive scale relative to the original building.  

Redevelopment shall be taken as an opportunity to remove unsympathetic work upon 
a  heritage  property,  such  as  air  conditioning  units,  or  repair  significant  architectural 
elements. Redevelopment should also be used to reinstate lost building elements. 

P7  

P8  

P9 

P10  New architectural elements, such as turrets, spires, domes and towers, should not be 
introduced into an existing building if such elements would dominate, or change the 
character of, the existing building. 

Advisory Note:  
The  Building  Appearance  and  Streetscape  provisions  of  the  Single  Dwelling  Houses  section  of  the  DCP  also 
contain controls relevant to heritage properties. 

186 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Roofs  

P11   The  main  roof  form  of  the  existing  dwelling  should  be  maintained.  Alterations  and 
additions  should  be  located  behind  the  existing  main  roof  form.  In  cases  of  rear 
additions, it is usually appropriate that the roof is set lower than the existing roof ridge 
and marries-in to the existing roof form. 

P12  

In some instances it will be appropriate for new roofs or roof additions to match the 
existing  roof  pitch  upon  the  heritage  property.  However  in  other  cases,  particularly 
Federation period houses, additions and ancillary buildings should provide a roof set 
at a lower pitch than the predominant roof form, in order to avoid dominating the main 
roof form and to provide differentiation from the original. 

P13  The  gable  width  of  a  roof  pertaining  to  a  detached  garage  or  carport  shall  not  be 
wider than the most prominent gable end pertaining to the existing house or building. 
It  may  be  necessary  to  provide  a  broken  roof  form  to  limit  the  dominance  of  the 
ancillary structure. 

P14   The introduction of new features in the street front elevation of the roof of a heritage 
property  such  as  satellite  dishes,  air  conditioners,  rooftop  antennae,  solar  water 
heaters, roof lights and skylights are not permitted.  

P15   Original  roof  materials  such  as  slate  and  Marseille  terracotta  tiles  and  key  roof 

features such as chimneys should be retained or reinstated.  

Roof Replacement  

P16   Where  it  can  be  demonstrated  that  an  existing  original  roof  covering  requires 
replacement  due  to  significant  deterioration  and  that  repair  is  not  practical,  the 
replacement with “like-for-like” materials is encouraged.  

Generally, terracotta tiled houses of the Federation and early Inter-War period will be 
required  to  replace  the  roof  with  unglazed  terracotta  tiles  in  a  Marseille  profile  and 
natural “terracotta” colour.  

Slate roofed houses should seek to retain the existing roof by transferring good slates 
from  side  and  rear  elevations  to  the  front  elevation,  or  through  the  use  of  second-
hand  materials  with  a  similar  aging  pattern  to  the  original  material.  Where 
replacement is inevitable, use of Welsh slates is encouraged, but consideration may 
also be given to the aforementioned terracotta tiles, or a suitable modern composite 
slate alternative where the change of materials can be justified on heritage grounds, 
and attention has been given to the profile, size, colour, finish and appearance of the 
replacement material. 

P17   Replacement roofing shall be based on evidence of the period, style, traditional form 

and materials of the existing building.  

P18   Roof details, such as finials and ridge capping, are to be maintained where possible, 

or replaced with matching elements. 

Attic-Style and First Floor Additions 

P19 

‘Rooms  in  roof’  additions  are  permissible  in  the  roof  spaces  of  heritage  properties 
subject  to  retaining  the  existing  roof  pitch  and  where  the  space  is  sufficient  to 
accommodate attic rooms. Attention must be given to the style, size and location of 
roof windows. Such works are also required to meet the relevant height controls and 
habitation requirements set out in this DCP and the BCA. 

187 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P20   First floor additions are only permitted where these would not affect the single storey 

character of the existing structure.  

P21  First  floor  additions  must  not  dominate  the  existing  structure  as  viewed  from  the 

street be setback as far as possible, and shall be designed to be visually recessive. 

Advisory Note:  
The Building Appearance and Streetscape provisions of the Single Dwelling Houses section of the DCP requires 
a  first  floor  addition  to  be  setback  a  minimum  of  9m  behind  the  front  building  line  of  the  ground  floor  (i.e.  the 
façade). 

Floor to Ceiling Height 

P22   The  floor  to  ceiling  height  of  the  first  floor  level  within  a  dwelling  house,  attached 
dwelling or semi-detached dwelling is not to exceed 2.4m to minimise the visual bulk 
and dominance of first floor additions. 

Dormer Windows  

P23   Dormer  windows  that  are  proposed  in  the  roofs  of  heritage  properties  must  be  a 
traditional architectural feature of the style of dwelling house and must be designed 
so  that  the  size,  proportion,  shape,  design,  location  and  finishes  of  the  dormer 
windows are in harmony with the main roof of the dwelling house. Generally, dormer 
windows should be avoided on the street façade.  

P24  Flush ‘Velux-style’ roof windows are often a more sympathetic alternative to a dormer 

window. 

Street Fronted Facades  

P25   The principal or street front façade of a heritage property must not be altered in any 
way  other  than  to  restore  original  features  of  the  building  or  to  remove  previous 
unsympathetic alterations and additions.  

P26   Original windows and doors must be retained or reinstated. 

P27   New  windows  and  doors,  especially  where  visible  from  the  street,  must  match  the 
proportions, style and materials of existing window and door features that correspond 
to the architectural style of the dwelling house.  

P28   The  external  wall  finishes  and  treatments  of  the  heritage  property  must  match  the 

architectural style of the dwelling house.  

P29   Cement render of existing face brick walls is not permitted.  

P30  Exterior  fixtures,  such  as  roller  shutters,  security  bars,  aluminium  awnings,  satellite 
dishes  and  air  conditioning  units,  or  similar  devices  shall  not  obscure  significant 
architectural  elements  upon  a  heritage  property’s  facade,  nor  detract  from  the 
character  of  buildings.  Roller  shutters  and  security  bars  will  generally  not  be 
permitted. 

P31   The  landscaped  front  setting  is  an  important  component  of  a  heritage  property, 
especially  where  it  retains  existing  contributory  trees,  plants,  garden  layouts  and 
garden  features  such  as  tessellated  tiled  entrance  paths.  These  features  must  be 
retained.  

188 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Verandahs  

P32   The enclosure of original open verandahs is not permitted.  

P33   The  reinstatement  of  verandahs,  whether  simple  or  elaborate  in  decoration,  must 

match the architectural style of the dwelling house.  

Landscaping 

P34   The  front  setback  (i.e.  front  yard)  of  a  heritage  property  shall  provide  minimal 
hardstand  and/or  hard  surfaces  in  order  to  preserve  its  setting  and  visual 
appearance.  

Views and Vistas 

P35  Development of a heritage property, or development in its vicinity, must:  

­ 

­ 

­ 

Provide  an  adequate  area  of 
interpretation of the significant building or place 

land  around 

the  development 

to  allow 

Not detract from the setting of the heritage property  

Retain and respect significant views/vistas from the public domain to a heritage 
property, as well as the views/vistas originating from the heritage property itself.  

Terrace Buildings 

P36  Development within a terrace group is to be designed with strict regard to the overall 
group  in  terms  of  height,  alignment,  form,  scale,  materials  and  architectural 
character.  

New Development  

P37   There  are  instances  where  new  development  may  be  built  on  the  site  of  a  heritage 
item, or within a heritage conservation area. Where this occurs, the new development 
must  ensure  it  respects  and  interprets  the  predominant  heritage  character  of  that 
particular site or precinct.  

P38  New development in an existing heritage conservation area must be compatible with 
the  heritage 

the  predominant  stylistic 

features  of  properties 

in 

and  reflect 
conservation area with respect to:  

­  Building bulk, height and proportion  
­  Scale and architectural style 
­ 
­  Reflecting the building and street alignments  
­ 

Integration into the streetscape and relationship with adjoining buildings  

Interpreting  the  materials  and  architectural  detailing  of  the  heritage  conservation 
area.  

P39   Where a garage is to be integrated into a new building, it must be setback from the 

front elevation so that it is a recessive component in the design.  

189 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Development in the Vicinity of a Heritage Property 

P40   New  development,  or  alterations  and  additions  to  existing  development,  that  is 

located in the vicinity of a heritage property, must be designed and sited to:  

­  Have regard for, and be compatible with, the significance of the heritage property  
­  Reflect the bulk, scale, height and proportion of the heritage property  
­  Respect the front garden setting, any established setbacks, and views and vistas 

of the heritage property  

­  Be recessive in character and not dominate the heritage property  
­ 
­  Respond to the building alignment of the heritage property.  

Interpret the materials and architectural detailing of the heritage property  

P40A  Any  development  having  three  storeys  or  more  which  is  contiguous  to  a  heritage 
property  will  be  expected  to  observe  a  5m  minimum  setback  from  the  heritage 
for  any  below-ground 
property’s  boundary 
excavation/basement). 

(and  4m  minimum  setback 

The purpose of this setback is to: 

­  Provide  for  a  sensitive  separation  of  buildings  and  maintenance  of  a  heritage 
item’s  setting,  particularly  the  “open  garden  setting”  and  generous  setbacks 
typical  of  heritage-listed  houses.  A  setback  will  be  required  irrespective  of  the 
setback of the heritage building from its boundary. 

­  Enable deep soil landscaping and substantial trees to be accommodated on the 
development  site  to  provide  a  landscape  buffer.  This  requirement  applies 
irrespective of whether there is existing landscaping on the heritage property. 

­  Limit the potential for excavation and construction works to negatively affect the 
structural  stability  of  the  heritage  item,  or  affect  established  trees/landscaping 
within the heritage property. 

­  Not  prejudice 

the 

future  development  of  heritage  properties,  particularly 

extensions. It is important that heritage places remain viable into the future. 

­  Limit the opportunity for negative impacts upon the amenity (especially noise and 
visual privacy) enjoyed by the residents/occupants of the heritage property. 

P40B  Any  development  located  on  a  site  contiguous  with  a  heritage  property,  shall  have 

regard to the following: 

­  The front setback area of the development is to maintain an open setting for the 
heritage item such as by way of a lower front fence height, sensitive location of 
the pedestrian access path/entrance, and landscaping. The “privatisation” of the 
front setback – characterised by courtyards, fences dividing private open space, 
multiple  entries,  and  high  walls  –  should  be  avoided.  Structures  (e.g.  bin 
enclosures,  covered  letterboxes,  fire  stairs)  should  be  avoided  in  the  front 
setback. 

­  The location of driveways in close proximity to the heritage item’s boundary is to 
be avoided. Driveways have the potential to adversely impact the amenity of the 
heritage property, its setting, cause excavation impacts, and reduce landscaping 
of the new development. 

­  The location of multiple courtyards or private open spaces along the boundary of 
the heritage item is to be avoided. This densification of use has the potential to 

190 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
impact the amenity of the heritage property’s residents/occupants. 

Subdivision 

P41  Development shall not be permitted to subdivide the front portion (i.e. front yard) of a 
heritage  property  such  that  new  development  would  obscure  the  existing  building, 
negatively  affect 
the  established  pattern  of 
development in that street. 

the  property’s  setting,  or  alter 

P42  Subdivision  of  a  heritage  property  is  generally  not  supported  by  virtue  of  the  likely 
impact on the setting and curtilage of the significant building or place, and on account 
of  limiting  the  ability  of  the  heritage  property  to  adapt  to  future  needs  on  a 
significantly reduced lot size. 

P43  Where a heritage building forms part of a larger redevelopment, Council will generally 
require that repair or restorative work to the heritage building or place is undertaken 
prior  to  any  subdivision  or  occupation.  For  instance,  through  a  condition  of  consent 
requiring  certain  works  prior  to  the  issue  of  a  Subdivision  Certificate  or  Occupation 
Certificate.  This  approach  seeks  to  ensure  that  the  conservation  of  the  heritage 
property is integral to the redevelopment.  

Paint and Colour Schemes  

P44   Painting over unpainted features such as external stonework and face brickwork of a 

heritage property is not permitted.  

P45   New  paint  and  heritage  colour  schemes  must  reflect  the  most  significant  design 

period of the heritage property.  

Ancillary Structures and Vehicle Parking 

P46   Carports and garages may be located on a heritage property in the following order:  

­  Where rear lane or secondary street access exists, the garage or carport must be 

accessed from the rear lane or secondary street.  

­  Where clause (i) above does not exist or is not achievable, the garage or carport 

must be sited to the rear of the property using the front entrance access.  

­  Where  site  constraints  exist  and  only  where  it  can  be  demonstrated  that  the 
garage or carport is unable to be located in accordance with clause (ii) above, as 
it  may  have  insufficient  width,  the  structure  may  be  sited  to  the  side  of  the 
dwelling house.  

P47  Where a garage or carport is to be located to the side of an existing dwelling house, 
the structure must be located a minimum of 1m behind the front building line of the 
dwelling house. Where the house’s façade features a front verandah, the verandahs 
depth  is  to  be  added  to  the  aforementioned  setback.  The  garage  or  carport  should 
not result in the removal of original architectural features such as windows,  window 
hoods  or  porches.  Preference  is  for  a  carport,  given  its  more  open  appearance, 
where the structure would be highly visible from the street. 

P48  Garages,  carports,  garden  sheds  or  similar  structures  shall  not  be  permitted  to  be 
located forward of the building line by virtue of their negative impact on the character 
of the heritage property and/or the streetscape.  

P49 

In most instances, hardstand parking spaces that are proposed to be located forward 
of  the  building  line  shall  not  be  permitted  by  virtue  of  their  negative  impact  on  the 
character of the heritage property and/or the streetscape. Hardstand parking spaces 
located forward of the building line will not be permitted where: 

191 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i.  The potential for alternative on-site vehicle parking is available 

ii.  The existing house is setback 7m or less from the front boundary 

iii.  The property has a width at the street frontage of 15m or less  

iv.  The existing house has a side boundary setback of 2.4m or more, or 

v.  The  combined  area  of  all  hardstand  surfaces  (e.g.  paths,  paving,  driveway  etc.) 

within the front yard would account for 50% or more of the front yard. 

In  exceptional  circumstances,  and  at  the  exclusion  of  properties  subject  to  above 
items  (i)  -  (v),  consideration  may  be  given  to  a  visually  discreet  and  simple  parallel 
strip  hardstand  area  of  minimum  dimensions,  with  soft  landscape  treatment,  where 
Council is satisfied that the hardstand area does not negatively impact upon the front 
setting of the heritage property and surrounding streetscape. 

P50  Ancillary  structures  such  as  garages,  carports,  garden  sheds  and  the  like  must 
complement the heritage property in terms of design and detailing, particularly where 
the structure is visible from the street.  

P51   Garages  and  carports  must  use  design  detailing,  materials  and  paint  schemes  that 
refer  to  and  are  compatible  with  the  heritage  property.  Simply  designed  structures 
using  lightweight  materials,  comprising  of  a  simple  form  and  using  appropriate 
materials are preferable.  

P52  The roofs of garages and carports must be simple in form and must not dominate or 
unduly  contrast  with  the  roof  form  of  the  heritage  property.  Ornate  detailing  and 
complex roof forms are generally inappropriate.  

P53  Driveways  shall  not  have  a  stencilled  concrete  finish.  Pavers,  plain  or  single- 
coloured concrete finishes are preferable in achieving a recessive appearance.  

Rainwater Tanks  

P54  Rainwater tanks must not be installed in the front garden or front setting of a heritage 

property.  

P55   Rainwater  tanks  can  be  located  along  the  side  elevations  of  a  heritage  building, 

provided that these are setback at least 2m behind the building’s front elevation.  

P56   Where  buildings  have  a  front  or  wraparound  verandah,  the  rainwater  tank  must  be 

located a minimum 2m behind the verandah.  

P57   Where a rainwater tank is visible from the street, heritage colours such as green or 
red are recommended, or a colour which otherwise complements the colours within 
the existing building.  

192 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7.3   Fences on Heritage Properties 

Overview 

Fences on heritage properties have the potential to contribute to the heritage significance of 
that place or precinct, as well as contribute to the streetscape presentation. It is important to 
ensure that front, side and rear boundary fencing on a heritage property is compatible with 
the building or area to which it relates.  

Objectives 

O1  

O2  

O3  

O4  

To ensure that original and historically significant fences and gates are retained. 

To ensure that new fences are sympathetic to the character of the heritage property. 

To ensure new fences are in keeping with the period and style of the building. 

To ensure that new fences are designed to complement the streetscape. 

Provisions 

Fence Character and Design 

P1 

The  removal  of  any  fencing  on  a  heritage  property  is  not  permitted  without  prior 
Council consent, unless it is exempt development.  

P2 

Original fences must be retained and repaired. 

P3  Where  it  can  be  demonstrated  that  P2  above  cannot  be  achieved  and  the  original 
fence must be replaced, this fencing must be reconstructed with matching materials 
to match the original fencing.  

P4 

In the first instance, the design of new fencing should relate to the period and style of 
the building upon that property.  

P5  Where new fencing is proposed in an established or heritage streetscape, the fencing 
must  reflect  the  character,  materials,  height,  rhythm  of  bays  and  openings,  design 
and colour of the predominant fence design.  

P6 

P7 

Fencing details (including the plinth wall, pedestrian gates, support piers, driveways, 
gates and metal railings) must be compatible with the overall character and design of 
the fence.  

Fencing  must  be  stepped  to  comply  with  maximum fence  heights  and  to  reflect  the 
gradient (slope) of the land.  

P8    Electric lights or light mechanisms are not permitted on any part of a heritage fence 
as  they  are  not  traditional  features.  Up  lights  and  down  lights,  where  appropriately 
positioned  and  concealed  from  public  view,  may  be  considered  as  an  acceptable 
alternative for lighting a fence structure.  

Advisory Note:  
Reference  can  be  made  to  books  and  historical  photographs  to  guide  the  design  of  new  fences  and  gates.  If 
these resources are not available, the design of other fences in the locality may be an appropriate style guide, 
provided these belong to a house of a similar period. 

193 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Height of Front Boundary Fences  

P9 

The maximum height of open-style (e.g. timber picket) front boundary fencing is 1.2m 
above  the  adjacent  footpath  level.  Where  a  fence  is  to  be  provided  with  a  base 
course, this solid portion of the fence should not exceed a third of the overall fence 
height. 

P10  The maximum height of solid or masonry front boundary fencing is 900mm above the 

adjacent footpath level.  

P11  Only  where  associated  with  a  Victorian  period  house,  the  maximum  height  of 
palisade-style front boundary fencing is 1.7m above the adjacent footpath level. For 
the avoidance of doubt, fences upon non-Victorian properties are generally restricted 
to 1.2m in height, and the use of metal bars or palisade fencing is not supported. 

P12  Proposals to exceed the height limits (including piers) as outlined in P9, P10 and P11 
above,  must  prove  that  the  fence  height  corresponds  and  accords  with  the 
architectural style of the heritage property and/or continues an established pattern of 
heritage fences of a similar height.  

Fence Materials 

P13  Heritage properties of the Federation or Inter-War period should adopt timber and/or 

masonry materials which are characteristic of that period. 

P14  Where  new  masonry  front  boundary  fencing  is  proposed,  the  materials  and  design 
should match the colour and pattern of brickwork upon the existing building.  

P15  The following materials are not permitted on a heritage property: 

­  Arc Mesh, metal pool-type bars or modern tubular bars/pickets. 
­  Concrete block. 
­  Sheet metal – flat or corrugated and/or coloured. 
­  Pressed metal coloured sections (e.g. Colorbond). 
­  Sheet material including plywood, chipboard, fibre cement and glass fibre.  

P16    The painting or rendering of original masonry fencing is not supported.  

Side and Rear Boundary Fences  

P17  The maximum height of side and rear boundary fencing is 1.8m. 

P18  Side boundary fences must taper (i.e. reduce) in height from the front building line to 

the point where it meets the front boundary fencing. 

P19  Side  and  rear  boundary  fencing  must  employ  timber  materials  with  vertical  close-
boarded unpainted hardwood with hardwood posts and rails. The use of metal panel 
fencing (e.g. Colorbond) is not supported for heritage properties. 

P20  Solid  masonry  side  and  rear  boundary  fencing  will  only  be  permitted  in  exceptional 
circumstances where it may be proven that the fence design continues a pre-existing 
pattern or character of such fencing.  

Advisory Note:  
The  provisions  of  the  Dividing  Fences  Act  are  to  be  observed  in  regard  to  fences,  on  the  dividing  boundary 
between two properties.  

194 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lych Gates 

P21  Elaborate lych gates are uncommon features in Burwood and  will generally only be 
permitted where it can be demonstrated that the Lych gate was a pre-existing feature 
of the property, and where it is compatible with the character of the dwelling house or 
locality. 

Examples of Fence and Gate Styles 

Victorian Cast Iron Pickets and Gate 

Federation Bungalow Timber Palings and Gate 

Inter-War Bungalow Timber Paling Fence and Gate  

195 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7.4  Special Residential Precincts 

4.7.4.1   Appian Way 

Overview 

The original Hoskins’ Estate dating from the early 1900’s consisted of 39 allotments, with 36 
houses fronting Burwood Road, Appian Way and Liverpool Road plus a recreation reserve. 
The properties are large, ranging from a quarter acre to three-quarters of an acre, (0.1ha to 
0.3ha), and irregularly shaped.  

Figure 37: Original Plan Hoskins Estate.  

The Conservation Area currently comprises 41 houses, 31 of which are reasonably intact, a 
recreation  area  consisting  of  three  lawn  tennis  courts  with  a  weatherboard  pavilion,  and 
landscape  elements  such  as  street  trees  and  picket  fences.  Five  houses  (nos.  70-78 
Liverpool  Road,  southern  side)  within  the  Conservation  Area  are  not  in  the  Hoskins  Estate 
but  in  the  Austinlee  Estate  and  three  houses  of  the  original  estate  fronting  Liverpool  Road 
are not in the Conservation Area.  

A  more  detailed  assessment  of  the  significance  of  the  Appian  Way  Heritage  Conservation 
Area may be found at Appendix 8.5. 

196 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 38: Appian Way Conservation Area.  

Objectives 

O1  To provide appropriate and consistent policy guidance for future development:  

(a)   By ensuring permanent protection of the Conservation Area, including all existing 

structures, landscape features and relics, and the setting of the area.  

(b)   Which will result in the long-term conservation and enhancement of the historic, 
architectural,  landscape  and  streetscape  elements  which  contribute  to  the 
distinctive character and unique environment of the Conservation Area.  

O2   To conserve the heritage significance of the Conservation Area and its setting.  

O3   To  increase  the  awareness  of  persons  using  the  BDCP  about  the  significance  of  the 

Conservation Area and the role of development in that context.  

O4   To  conserve  and/or  enhance  existing  buildings,  structures  and  works  in  the 

Conservation Area.  

O5   To  retain  and/or  reinstate  the  characteristic  architectural,  landscape  and  streetscape 

elements of the Conservation Area.  

O6   To  ensure  that  new  development  will  safeguard  the  historic,  cultural,  social, 
architectural  or  aesthetic  significance  of  the  building,  work  or  site  as  well  as  the 
streetscape of the area.  

O7   To  ensure  new  development  is  sympathetic  to  the  particular  building  and/or  the 
Conservation Area in terms of siting, form, massing, articulation and detail composition.  

O8   To  ensure  that  the  proposed  form  of  roof  and  details  the  style,  size,  proportion  and 
position of openings of windows and doors the colours, textures, style, size and type of 
finish  of  materials  to  be  used  on  the  exterior  of  building  are  compatible  with  similar 
features and materials used in the existing building on the site and in the Conservation 
Area.  

197 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
O9   To retain  any  horticultural  or  stylistic  features  of  merit  of  the  building,  work  or  site,  or 

the Conservation Area generally.  

O10  To  encourage  the  justified  removal  of  structures  or  works  which  detract  from  the 
heritage  significance  of  the  particular  building  and/or  the  Conservation  Area  (non-
contributory buildings or structures).  

O11  To  ensure  that  the  integrity  of  existing  contributory  buildings  and  works  within  the 
Conservation Area is not diminished by total or partial demolition or by alterations and 
additions.  

O12  To safeguard and document the pattern of development within the Conservation Area.  

O13  To retain the subdivision pattern of the Hoskins Estate.  

Provisions  

Demolition (Partial or Total)  

P1  

P2  

P3  

Buildings or works which are considered, in the opinion of the Council, to contribute 
to  the  significance  of  the  conservation  area  or  its  streetscape  should  not  be 
demolished.  

Non-contributory  buildings  or  works may  only  be  demolished  with  Council  approval, 
where their removal is supported through appropriate analysis as part of a Heritage 
Impact Statement  

Notwithstanding Provisions D1 and D2, demolition of an existing structure will not be 
permitted  unless  development  approval  has  been  achieved  for  a  replacement 
structure, or for appropriate restoration, renovation or repair of the building, works or 
site.  

Ground and First Floor Works (including attic additions) 

P4  

P5  

Architectural design elements shall be incorporated/integrated to avoid the creation of 
large plain wall surface areas.  

Alterations  and  additions  shall  be  designed  to  complement  the  style  of  the  existing 
dwelling and its setting, and not detract from the original and/or existing relationship 
of the building or works to the street.  

P6 

Alterations and additions that engulf the existing dwelling in terms of floor space are 
not appropriate in the Appian Way Conservation Area. 

Roof Details  

Advisory Note: 
An  important  element  in  this  Conservation  Area  is  the  alternating  roof  cladding  of  dwellings  utilising  slate  and 
unglazed Marseilles pattern terracotta tiles. 

P7  

P8  

Roofs should maintain the pitch and (generally) asymmetric line of the existing roof, 
to consist of one major (hipped) section with secondary gables and hips.  

Small suitably designed gables and other repeated elements where justifiable, should 
reflect the proportions, detailing and form of the main gable.  

198 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
P9  

The use of turrets, spires, domes and towers, and dormer windows will be permitted 
only  where  they  respect  the  existing  dwelling  and  the  streetscape.  These  elements 
are not to dominate the contextual form or setting of the existing building.  

P10   Additions  and  extensions  should  not  disrupt  the  roofline,  nor  dominate  the  front 
and/or side elevations. Roof forms of additions should be lower than the existing roof 
and differentiated from the original.  

P11   Roof additions should not dominate that of the existing dwelling as viewed from the 
street  and  shall  remain  recessive,  to  be  limited  to  appropriate  roof  elements  which 
maintain the existing composition of the front façade.  

P12  Extensions located to the rear of the dwelling should respect the form and balance of 
the existing rear part of the building and the layout of the garden. In some cases, say 
on larger lots, pavilion extensions would be acceptable.  

P13   Upper  floor  extensions  should  be  contained  within  the  existing  roofline,  with  roof 
forms of a high pitch (30 to 35 degrees) required to accommodate a proposed attic 
level.  Such  roof  additions  should  access  daylight  from  appropriately  scaled  dormer 
windows only where otherwise flat-in-plane window only should be provided.  

P14   Other  forms  of  alterations  and  additions,  which  do  not  satisfy  Controls  P7-P13,  are 

unacceptable. 

P15   Roofs  of  all  residential  buildings  should  be  finished  with  either  slates  or  unglazed 
Marseilles  terracotta  tiles,  as  appropriate,  with  roofs  to  be  completed  as  a  single 
entity.  Patching  of  roof  materials  to  be  undertaken  from  rear  to  front  and  side 
elevations,  with  replacements  occurring  to  the  whole  of  the  rear,  as  necessary,  to 
allow existing material to be recycled for use on the side and front roof slopes.  

Advisory Note:  
Repairs to slate roofs is a specialist’s job where colour, texture and material weight need special consideration. 
Patching with recycled materials may leave an undesirable “mottled” effect.  

P16   New roofs should be sympathetic to the design and details of the existing house or 

structure.  

P17   The following are typical roof details:  

 
 
 
 
 
Slate and unglazed terracotta tiles.  

Terracotta  ridge  cappings  and  ornaments  (crests,  finials)  replicating  the 
originals for tile and slate roofs.  

Original  gable  ends  may  accommodate  shingles  or  rendered  brickwork,  either 
stucco or roughcast patterns.  

Rafter ends to roof eaves should be exposed.  

Guttering of half-round or ogee profile, with round downpipes.  

P18   Skylights  are  not  permitted  to  the  main  roof  areas  except  on  rear  elevations  where 

only one skylight per roof plane is permissible.  

Chimney Details  

P19  Chimneys should be retained in situ. Main fireplaces are not to be removed.  

P20   The  detailing  and  proportions  of  proposed  chimneys  should  be  sympathetic  to 

existing chimney elements.  

199 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P21   Modern  flues,  exhausts  and  similar  elements  should  generally  be  avoided  and  are 
not permitted on the front or side elevations of a dwelling house, or where they can 
be seen from the street.  

Verandah Details  

P22   New  verandahs, simple or elaborate in decoration, should match existing in original 

detail. Appropriate details include:  

 
 
 
 
 
Verandahs supported by turned timber columns.  

Wide edges, generally finished with slate or marble slabs.  

Enclosed with low brick walls and/or timber balustrades.  

Verandah brickwork forming a plinth for the timber supports, either capped, with 
brick on edge or stone.  

Mosaic or tessellated tiling for the verandah floor surface. 

P23   Columns, decorative timber brackets and valance boards (span column tops) should 
be retained and restored/reconstructed to remain as important elements for defining, 
by their position and spacing, particular features (entries, windows, verandah corners 
and gables).  

Façade Details  

P24   The  external  wall  finish  of  a  new  addition  to  a  dwelling  should  match  that  of  the 
existing dwelling or be appropriate to that of original dwellings in the area. Note that 
the rear portions of buildings usually have less elaborate materials and details.  

Window and Sunhood Details  

P25  New  windows  for  a  dwelling  are  to  match  and  complement  original  windows  and 

should incorporate the following details:  

 
 
 
 
Vertical  modules,  either  single  and  grouped  in  banks  divided  only  by  timber 
sashes and mullions  

The proportions of an opening rectangular window shall generally be a third as 
wide  as  it  is  tall  (for  a  single  window),  with  banking  in  these  proportions  for 
larger openings and for bay windows  

Window frames should be in wood and painted to match original paintwork  

Window types should respond to the existing detailing of the dwelling house.  

P26  Aluminium  framed  windows  will  not  be  permitted.  Original  sunhoods  should  be 

retained, repaired or reinstated where necessary.  

P27  Modern style external security roll-up metal screens or grilles are not appropriate to 

dwellings in the Appian Way.  

Door Details  

P28   Front doors should match existing and contain moulded recessed timber panels and 
leadlight/stained  glass  panels,  together  with  sidelights  and  fanlights,  to  accentuate 
the prominence of the entry.  

200 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P29   Side or other doors, which are not the main entry, may be less elaborate, but should 

complement or match existing external doors.  

P30   Security grille doors should not obscure the details of the main door and should not, 

when fitted, cause damage to the fabric of the dwelling.  

Details of Material for Residential Dwellings and Associated Structures  

P31   Original  materials  of the  1900-1920s  period  are to  be  used,  or  where these  are  not 
available,  used  and  substitute  materials  of  appropriate  quality  are  encouraged. 
Applicants  are  to  identify  the  source  of  appropriate  materials  with  the  Development 
Application  and  to  supply  samples  for  approval  as  part  of  the  development 
assessment  process.  Tuck  pointing  and  re-skinning  of  brickwork  is  inappropriate  in 
this Conservation Area.  

P32   Common brick/lime mortar should be used on rear/side walls.  

Garage and Carport Details  

P33  Garages  and  carports  should  be  detached  and  preferably  to  the  rear  of  the  site,  to 
reflect the particular site’s originality with the scale and height to be secondary to the 
dwelling.  

P34  Basic  materials  of  construction,  including  colours  and  finishes,  for  garages  and 
carports  should  be  similar  to  that  of  dwelling  houses,  or  other  existing  contributory 
original car sheds in the Conservation Area.  

P35  Garages  should  incorporate  simple  metal  or  timber  garage  doors  with  small  width 
slats or grooves. Decorative garage doors are not suitable in the Appian Way.  

P36  Timber-posted carports with pitched roofs are to be designed appropriately. The pitch 

of such roofs is to be similar to that of the dwelling.  

P37  Carports should not be enclosed nor be provided with doors.  

P38  Driveway  paving  should  reflect  the  garden  setting  of  the  existing  dwelling,  and 
incorporate  the  use  of  period  garden  design  elements,  i.e.  gravel  finishes,  informal 
paving, brick edging single wheel driveway tracks.  

P39  Driveway paving should be kept to a minimum in width and extent such that separate 

wheel tracks are not to exceed 0.4m in width.  

Garden Shed and other Utility Building Details  

P40   Garden  sheds  and  other  utility  buildings  should  be  located  in  the  rear  yard  and 

should be as low and unobtrusive as possible.  

P41   Preferred construction for such buildings is timber or fibre cement weatherboard with 

a galvanised iron roof.  

Fence and Gate Details  

P42  Properties  which  have  full  or  partial  (plinth  and/or  piers)  brick  front  fencing  should 

retain such elements.  

P43   All other properties not subject to FG1 should incorporate timber picket front fencing, 
painted white or other appropriate light colour, on the front boundary as a feature of 
the Conservation Area.  

201 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P44   The  style,  height  and  material  of  fencing  should  reflect  the  original  details 

predominant within the Conservation Area.  

P45   Side  path  gates,  letterboxes,  lych  gates,  lighting  and  other  street  furniture  or  site 
facilities,  visible  from  the  street,  should  be  appropriately  styled  to  reflect  original 
details  relevant  to  the  Conservation  Area  and  not  to  detract  from  the  heritage 
significance of the particular dwelling.  

P46   Side fences to establish property boundaries are to be appropriately understated post 
and rail with wire mesh infill (no brick fences or any other structures are considered 
appropriate on or within 900mm of a common boundary including a rear boundary).  

Advisory Note:  
Post and rail with wire mesh infill side fence is typical of the original style of side fencing within the Appian Way, 
fashionable  at  the  time.  The  intention  of  that  type  of  fence  is  that  it  provides  a  real  physical  barrier  between 
properties while maintaining an open feel. The wire mesh was often painted either dark green or black to increase 
that impression of space and is, from observation, in many examples covered with shrubs and creepers.  

Landscaping/Garden Details  

P47   A semi-formal design is generally appropriate for front and side gardens viewed from 

the street, with landscape plans to demonstrate:  

  Well defined boundaries.  

  Trimmed lawns (buffalo or couch).  

  Edges and planting in neat beds.  

  Shrubs and nominated shade trees located to complement the house.  

  Appropriate  plant  material  reflecting  the  species  commonly  available  between 

1900 and 1920 in the area.  

P48   Pathways may divide the lawn area, lined with flowerbeds that should also line inside 

the front fence.  

P49   Rear gardens may be more informal and functional to individual use with the planting 

of larger trees at the rear of the dwellings.  

Advisory Note:  
Particular  guidelines  on  conserving  and  re-establishing  a  garden  appropriate  to  a  conservation  area,  together 
with plant types and a landscaping code, are available from the NSW Heritage Branch.  

P50   A landscape plan shall  be provided  where alterations or additions to existing garden 
layouts or content are proposed. New planting shall correspond with details of original 
plant  species  and garden  layouts  typical  of  the period garden setting  of  the  dwelling 
or, where more appropriate, the Conservation Area.  

P51   Existing  contributory  trees,  plants,  garden  layouts  and  garden  features  should  be 

retained and incorporated within any development proposal.  

P52   Not more than 30% of the site area should be built upon, hard paved etc.  

P53   The  trees  in  the  nature  strips  form  a  significant  visual  element  in  the  Conservation 

Area and should be properly protected and maintained appropriately.  

Central Recreation Area and Pavilion Details  

This  area  is  important  and  is  to  be  conserved  as  it  is  a  key  part  of  the  significance  of  the 
Conservation Area.  

202 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P54   Any proposal to repair, renovate or otherwise develop or modify the recreation area 
and/or its weatherboard pavilion layout, structure, planting, or other fencing elements, 
including  change  of  use,  should  be  discussed  firstly  with  the  Council’s  Heritage 
Adviser, prior to the submission of a Development Application.  

P55   The fencing,  sports  pavilion,  surrounding  landscaping  and  sports facilities  are  to  be 

properly maintained as the primary focus of the estate.  

Colours, External Finishes and other Decoration Details  

P56   A  full  colour  scheme  should  be  provided  with  the  Development  Application,  with 
colours  selected  to  correspond  to  brick  types,  original  paint  types,  shades  and 
compositions  which  respect  the  period  character  of  the existing  building or  work  or, 
where more appropriate, the Conservation Area generally.  

P57   Existing contributory details and decorations should be maintained and preserved.  

P58   New  details  and  decorations  should  reflect  the  original  detailing  and  decoration  of 
existing  building  or  works,  or  where  more  appropriate,  the  Conservation  Area 
generally.  

P59   Unpainted  surfaces  of  original  buildings  or  works  should  not  be  painted,  rendered, 

plastered or covered with any other material.  

Subdivision Details  

P60   The  integrity  of  the  original  subdivision  pattern  of  the  Hoskins  Estate  should  be 
preserved. Subdivision of existing allotments is contrary to the aims and objectives of 
the Hoskins Estate.  

Dual Occupancy  

P61   Detached dual occupancies are not appropriate to this Conservation Area.  

P62     Any  other  form  of  dual  occupancy  development  should  conform  to  all  the 

  requirements of this DCP for the Conservation Area.  

Additional Controls for New Development  

P63   New dwellings will only be permitted to replace non-contributory dwellings within the 

Conservation Area.  

P64   The major design form of a new building should be compatible with the Conservation 
Area.  Buildings  are  to  be  asymmetrical  in  plan  and  massing  and  of  single  storey 
construction. The scale and style of new development should be in sympathy with the 
original  stylistic  development  within 
the  Conservation  Area.  Contemporary 
interpretation  of  existing  dwelling  styles  is  encouraged.  Imitation  style  is  not 
appropriate for new dwellings.  

P65   Feature elements are necessary to avoid large blank façades, both to the street and 
on side elevations, and may include bay windows, verandahs, protruding gables, with 
hipped  or  gabled  roof  lines  which  exhibit  variations  in  line  but  are  generally  well 
pitched (30-35 degrees).  

P66   A  new  building  should  relate  sympathetically  to  those  neighbouring  and  in  siting, 

form, massing, articulation and detail composition.  

203 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P67   The  development  should  maintain  existing  views  from  neighbouring  dwellings, 
achieve views of the Appian Way private recreation area and provide for retention of 
views of the rear gardens and trees between buildings.  

P68   Non-residential buildings (garages, garden sheds, workshops, etc.) shall complement 
the proposed dwelling house for the site, with siting, scale, form, massing design and 
detailing typical of the Conservation Area.  

P69   The removal of uncharacteristic or non-contributory buildings from the Conservation 

Area is generally encouraged.  

P70   The existing or former front boundary setback should be maintained.  

P71   Side boundary setbacks should be as generous as possible and relate to the original 

Hoskins Estate dwelling.  

4.7.4.2   Malvern Hill 

Background 

The original Malvern Hill Estate in Croydon covers approximately 23 hectares of land south-
west  of  Croydon  Railway  Station. The  dominant features  in  the  Malvern  Hill  Estate  are the 
wide  roads,  tree  lined  footpaths  and  cohesive  streetscapes  with  skyline  broken  by 
Federation and California Bungalow style roofs, gables and chimney stacks on dwellings and 
an intact shopping strip.  
The topography of the area is gently sloping to flat. The land slopes downwards to the north, 
from Liverpool Road to Murray Street. David Street and Chelmsford Avenue run south-west 
to  north-east  down  the  slope  so  are,  in  effect,  on  the  side  of  Malvern  Hill.  The  slope  does 
create some variation in the views and townscape, but a “hill” in itself is not pronounced.  

The  alignment  of  Malvern  and  Dickinson  Avenues  and  The  Strand  is  an  example  of  an 
interesting road form, of curved rather than the traditional gridiron street pattern. The Strand 
maintains the purpose of a formal avenue, which leads to the residential streets.  

The  skyline  is  dominated  by  street  trees  and  the  features  of  the  houses  such  as  chimney 
stacks, gables, ridge capping and rooftops of the two storey houses.  

Malvern  Hill  is  generally  a  residential  area  with  a  shopping  centre  adjacent  to  Croydon 
Railway Station. The area is described by the National Trust of Australia (NSW) as:  

“a  distinctive,  highly  cohesive  area  of  good  quality  Federation  period  houses  and  shops, 
street  planning  and  planting  in  streets  and  gardens.  The  area  is  significant  as  an  early 
planned ‘model suburb’ and is one of the first examples of the successful application of local 
government development controls”.  

The National Trust’s conservation area is larger and extends across the eastern boundary of 
the Burwood LGA (Dickinson Avenue) into the Ashfield LGA. However, about 90 per cent of 
the conservation area lies in Burwood.  

The  street  trees,  especially  those  associated  with  the  Federation  period,  contribute  to  the 
character  of  the  area.  Examples  of  the  original  plantings  are  found  in  Lea  Street  and 
Chelmsford Avenue.  

In  Lea  Street,  the  palms  Phoenix  Canariensis  (Canary  Palms)  line  the  road.  Burwood 
Council,  in  1912,  pioneered  the  planting  of  the  trees  as  other  varieties  such  as  Camphor 
Laurels,  interfered  with  electricity  wires.  Originally  the  palms  were  located  on  the roadway, 
as was commonly seen around the Burwood and Ashfield areas.  

204 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  more  detailed  assessment  of  the  significance  of  the  Malvern  Hill  Heritage  Conservation 
Area may be found at Appendix 8.6. 

Objectives  

O1 

O2 

O3 

O4 

O5 

O6 

O7 

O8 

O9 

To  conserve  and  enhance  existing  buildings,  structures  and  works 
conservation area. 

in 

the 

To  retain  and  reinstate  the  characteristic  architectural,  landscape  and  streetscape 
elements of the conservation area,  

Ensure that new development will safeguard the historic, cultural, social, architectural 
or aesthetic significance of the building, work or site.  

Ensure that new development will maintain the character and streetscape of the area.  

Ensure  that  the  proposed  form  of  roof  and  details  the  style,  size,  proportion  and 
position of openings of windows and doors the colours, textures, style, size and type 
of finish of materials to be used on the exterior of building are compatible with similar 
features  and  materials  used  in  the  existing  building  on  the  site  and  in  the 
conservation area.  

Retain any horticultural or stylistic feature of merit of the building, work or site, or the 
conservation area generally,  

To encourage the removal or reversal of components which detract from the heritage 
significance of the conservation area.  

To  limit  partial  demolition  such  that  it  does  not  alter  nor  detrimentally  affect  the 
heritage significance of the particular building nor of the conservation area.  

To retain the cohesive appearance of the terraced commercial/retail premises within 
The Strand.  

O10  To ensure that new built elements accommodate modern day living requirements for 
the residents, e.g. garages, and complement the integrity of existing buildings on the 
site, and the conservation area generally.  

Provisions  

Demolition Details (Partial or Total)  

P1  

P2  

P3  

Buildings or works which are considered, in the opinion of the Council, to contribute 
to  the  significance  of  the  conservation  area  or  its  streetscape  should  not  be 
demolished.  

Non-contributory buildings or works should only be demolished  where their removal 
is supported through appropriate analysis as part of a heritage impact statement.  

Notwithstanding Provisions PI and P2, demolition of an existing structure should not 
be  permitted  unless  development  approval  has  been  achieved  for  a  replacement 
structure, or for appropriate restoration, renovation or repair of the building, works or 
site.  

Layout  

P4  

Dwelling houses should be asymmetrical in plan and of single storey appearance as 
viewed  from  the  street,  and  shall  maintain  the  predominant  building  alignment  from 

205 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  front  boundary.  This  control  recognises,  however,  that  there  are  a  number  of 
original two-storey dwellings in this conservation area.  

P5   Outbuildings  (garages,  garden  sheds,  etc.)  should  relate  to  the  dwelling  with 

setbacks from the street for outbuilding(s) to reflect that of the street.  

Ground and First Floor Addition Details  

P6 

P7  

P8  

Traditional architectural feature elements should be incorporated/ integrated to avoid 
the creation of large plain wall surfaces.  

Alterations  and  additions  should  be  incorporated  to  complement  the  style  of  the 
existing  building  and  its  setting,  and  not  detract  from  the  original  and/or  existing 
relationship of the building or works to the street.  

Upper  floor  extensions  should  not  interrupt  the  existing  roof  line.  An  original  high-
pitched  roof  suited  to  the  building  style  may  allow  rooms  at  an  attic  level,  with 
appropriately scaled dormer windows for light.  

P9   Other  forms  of  upper  addition  are  generally  out  of  character  and/or  given  allotment 

size, prove to be overpowering and as such, are unacceptable.  

Roof Details  

P10   Roofs  for  Federation  style  dwellings  should  form  one  major  (hipped)  section  with 
secondary  gables  and  hips.  Bungalow  roofs  are  simpler  in  treatment.  A-frame, 
mansard and Cape Cod type variations are not acceptable. 

Roof Forms of a Federation Style Dwelling 

P11   Small suitably designed gables or gablets and other repeated elements should reflect 

the proportions, detailing and form of the main gable.  

P12   The  use  of  turrets,  spires,  domes  and  towers,  and  dormer  windows  are  permitted, 
where appropriate, as they break the roof form and add individuality, and are useful 
to reinforce a change in floor plan, a corner, verandah or entry. These elements are 
not to dominate the contextual form or setting of the existing building,  

P13   Additions  and  extensions  should  not  to  have  a  roof  line  which  dominates  the  front 
and/or  side  elevations  of  the  dwelling  nor  be  out  of  scale  with  those  in  the 
conservation area.  

P14   Roof  additions  should  not  dominate  the  presentation  of  the  existing  dwelling  as 
viewed  from  the  street  and  shall  remain  recessive,  to  be  limited  to  appropriate  roof 
elements which maintain the existing composition of the front façade.  

206 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P15   Extensions located to the rear of the dwelling should respect the form and balance of 
the  existing  rear  part  of  the  building  and  the  layout  of  the  garden,  and  should 
incorporate  the  use  of  a  skillion  or  simple  hip  roof  treatment,  with  a  demonstrably 
lower  ridge  height  compared  to  that  of  the  ‘main’  roof  section  of  the  dwelling  to 
appear subservient to the form and balance of the main roof.  

P16  Upper floor  extensions  should  be  contained  within  the  existing  roof  line,  particularly 
with existing roof forms of a high pitch (30 to 35 degrees) required to accommodate a 
proposed  attic  level.  Such  roof  additions  will  capture  sunlight  from  appropriately 
scaled dormer windows.  

P17   Any  lateral  roof  extension  should  be  in  a  ‘corrugated  iron’  clad  skillion  section  or,  if 
pitched, to have the ridge at a markedly lower level than that of the main existing roof 
form.  

P18   Other forms of alterations and additions  which do not satisfy Controls P10–P17 are 
considered  to  be  generally  out  of  character  and  unacceptable  (other  than  skillion 
sections of dwellings or outbuildings).  

P19   Roofs  of  all  residential  buildings  should  be  finished  with  either  slates  or  Marseilles 
terracotta  orange  tiles  (unglazed),  as  appropriate,  with  roofs  to  be  completed  as  a 
single entity. Patching of roof materials to be undertaken from rear to front and side 
elevations,  with  replacements  occurring  to  the  whole  of  the  rear,  as  necessary  to 
allow existing material to be recycled for use on the side and front roof slopes.  

Unglazed Terracotta Tiles with Marseilles Profile (above) or Slate Roof (below) 

Advisory Note:  
Repairs to slate roofs is a specialist’s job where colour, texture and material weight need special consideration, 
Patching with recycled materials may leave an undesirable “mottled” effect.  

Roof Decoration Details  

P20   Decoration  and  detail  of  new  roofs  should,  where  appropriate,  be  designed  and 
detailed  to  match  the  design  and  details  of  the  existing  house  or  other  contributory 
houses in the conservation area.  

P21   The following list includes typical roof details:  

 
 
Terracotta ridge cappings and ornaments (crests, finials) are appropriate for tile 
and slate roofs.  

Original gable ends may accommodate shingles (oiled or painted) or rendered 
brickwork, either stucco and roughcast patterns.  

207 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rafter  ends  to  roof  caves  are  to  be  exposed,  but  shall  maintain  a  minimal 
overhang. 

Guttering shall be of half-round or ogee profile, with downpipes to be round in 
profile.  

Skillion roofs at the rear of dwellings should be clad in corrugated iron/Custom 
Orb.  

Chimney Details  

P22   Chimneys  should  be  retained  in  situ,  where  possible,  to  be  supported  on  beams 
within the roof if fireplaces are required to be removed. Main fireplaces are not to be 
removed.  

P23   The  detailing  and  proportions  of  proposed  chimneys  of  a  dwelling  should  match 
existing  chimney  elements  of  that  dwelling,  or  of  a  complementary  dwelling  in  the 
conservation area.  

P24   Modern  flues,  exhausts  and  similar  elements  should  generally  be  avoided  and  are 
not permitted on the front or side elevations of a dwelling house, or where they can 
be seen from the street.  

Verandah Details  

P25   New  verandahs,  both  simple  and  elaborate  in  decoration,  should  match  existing 
feature  in  original  detail  as  well  as  be  appropriate  to  the  architectural  style  of  the 
dwelling. Appropriate details include: 

 
 
 
 
 
verandahs supported by turned timber column supports 

full  open  edges,  generally  finished  with  slate  or  marble  slabs  for  Federation 
style dwellings 

partial enclosure with low brick walls and/or timber balustrades or stone/ brick 

verandah brickwork forming a plinth for the timber supports, either capped, with 
brick on edge or stone, and/or 

mosaic or tessellated tiling for the verandah floor surface.  

P26   Columns,  decorative  timber  brackets  and  valance  boards  (spanning  column  tops) 
should be retained and restored/ reconstructed, to remain as important elements for 
defining,  by  their  position  and  spacing,  particular  features  (entries,  windows, 
verandah corners and gables).  

P27   Verandah  covering,  if  not  integral  with  the  ‘main’  roof  of  the  building,  should  be  of 

corrugated iron form.  

208 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Façade Details  

Verandah Details 

P28   The external wall finish of a dwelling should match that of the existing dwelling or be 
appropriate  to  that  or  original  dwellings  in  the  area  and  incorporate  the  following 
details:  

 
 
 
 
smooth face brickwork, in red to brown, purplish 

rough cast and stonework under bay windows  

horizontal courses of darker brickwork and tuck pointing, to highlight façades  

and/or tuck-pointing and brick banding.  

P29   Any  bay  window  to  the  side  elevation  to  a  side  street  on  a  corner  lot  should  be 
appropriately scaled, have windows of proper proportions, not exceed one in number 
and be preferably adjacent to a front or rear ‘wrap around’ verandah.  

Window and Sunhood Details  

P30   New windows for a dwelling are to match and complement original windows and shall 

incorporate the following details: 

 
 
 
vertical  modules,  either  single  and  grouped  in  banks  divided  only  by  timber 
sashes and mullions 

the proportions of an opening rectangular window shall generally be a third as 
wide  as  it  is  tall  (for  a  single  window),  with  banking  in  these  proportions  for 
larger openings and for bay windows 

window frames should be in wood and (or suitable wood lookalike construction) 
painted in colours to match originals. Stained woodwork is not suitable 

209 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
windows  types  shall  be  appropriate  to  the  existing  detailing  of  the  dwelling 
house 

P31   A feature of the majority of the original dwellings is a lack of side window to the front 

rooms and, as such, this feature should be retained.  

P32   Sunhoods  on  Federation  dwellings  generally  utilise  a  wooden  frame  with  either  tile, 

slate or wood shingle covering, usually consistent with the roofing material.  

Door Details  

P33   Front  doors  shall  match  existing  and  may  contain  moulded  recessed  timber  panels 
and  leadlight/stained  glass  panels,  together  with  sidelights  and  fanlights  to 
accentuate the prominence of the entry.  

P34   Side or other doors, which are not the main entry, may be less elaborate.  

Material Details for Residential Dwellings, Shops and Commercial Premises and Associated 
Structures  

P35   Original  materials  of the  1900-1920s  period  are to  be  used,  or  where these  are  not 
available, second hand or substitute materials of appropriate quality are encouraged 
where  they  do  not  alter  the  ‘heritage’  look  of  the  completed  building  element. 
Applicants  are  to  identify  the  source  of  appropriate  materials  with  the  Development 
Application  and  to  supply  samples  for  approval  as  part  of  the  development 
assessment process.  

Garage and Carport Details  

P36   Carports should be located behind the front alignment of and adjacent to the dwelling 

house or to the rear of the site, to reflect the particular site’s originality.  

P37   Garages  should  be  located  at  the  rear  of  the  site  and  should  not  dominate  the 
dwelling  on  the  site  nor  those  adjoining  and  nearby.  These  structures  should  be 
recessive in their design outcome.  

P38   Basic  materials  of  construction,  including  colours  and  finishes,  for  garages  and 
carports  are  to  be  similar  to  that  for  dwelling  houses,  shops  and  commercial 
premises, or other existing original car sheds in the conservation area.  

P39  Metal  roller  garage  doors  are  not  suitable  for  garages  that  face  the  street.  It  is 

preferred that garages incorporate either:  

 
 
timber bi-fold or swing doors, or  

appropriately styled timber faced tilt doors of which such doors should be of a 
dark heritage colour, where appropriate.  

P40   Timber-posted  carports  with  pitched  roofs  should  be  designed  to  be  as  discrete  as 
possible and positioned singly and behind the adjacent main building external wall or 
added to an existing single garage,  

P41     Carports should not be enclosed nor be provided with doors.  

210 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Garages to be Located to the Rear of the Dwelling 

P42   Driveway  paving  should  reflect  the  garden  setting  of  the  existing  dwelling  and 
incorporate  the  use  of  period  garden  design  elements,  i.e.  gravel  finishes,  informal 
paying, brick edging, etc.  

P43   Garages and carports on corner sites should be located at the rear of the rear yard 

and should not be forward of the building line of the adjacent dwelling.  

Fence and Gate Details  

P44   The style and height of front and side return fencing should reflect the original details 

and characteristics within the Malvern Hill Estate, such as:  
 
timber picket 

 
 
 
low brick with or without metal pipes or wrought iron work 

low brick with stone capping and base 

post and rail with cyclone wire infill for side return fencing.  

P45   Gates, letterboxes, lighting and other street furniture or site facilities, visible from the 
street  are  to  be  appropriately  styled  to  reflect  original  details  and  characteristics 
relevant to the Malvern Hill Estate.  

P46   Side fences (behind the building line, except for corner lots) and rear fences should 

be formed by up to 1.8m high wooden palings.  

P47   Side  return  fences  on  corner  properties  should  be  of  the  same  height  and  form 
(facing  the  side  street)  as  the  front  fence  up  to  a  point  towards  the  rear  of  the 
dwelling where the skillion section commences (or would normally commence).  

P48     The  rear  section  of  the side  fence  on  a  corner site facing  the  side  street  should  be 

1.8m high paling fencing.  

211 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Landscaping/Gardens Details  

P49   A formal design is appropriate for front and side gardens viewed from the street, with 

landscape plans to demonstrate: 

 
 
 
 
well defined boundaries  

trimmed lawns (preferably buffalo or couch)  

edges and planting in neat beds 

shrubs and shade trees, as features, located to complement the setting of the 
dwelling house. 

Landscaping and Garden Details – Formal Front Gardens 

P50   Pathways and flowerbeds may divide the lawn area.  

P51   Rear gardens may be more informal and functional to individual use.  

P52   A  landscape  plan  should  be  provided  where  alterations  or  additions  to  existing 
garden layouts are proposed. New planting should correspond with details of original 
plant species and garden layouts typical of the period garden setting of the dwelling 
or, where more appropriate, the conservation area.  

P53   Existing  contributory  trees,  plants,  garden  layouts  and  garden  features  should  be 

retained and incorporated within any development proposal.  

Colours, External Finishes and Other Decoration Details  

P54  A  full  colour  scheme  should  be  provided  with  the  Development  Application,  with 
colours  selected  to  correspond  to  paint  types,  shades  and  compositions  which 
respect  the  period  character  of  the  existing  building  or  work  or,  where  more 
appropriate, the conservation area generally.  

P55   Existing contributory details and decorations should be maintained and preserved.  

212 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P56   New  details  and  decorations  should  reflect  the  original  detailing  and  decoration  of 
existing  building  or  works,  or  where  more  appropriate,  the  conservation  area 
generally.  

P57   Unpainted surfaces such as brick or stone work of original buildings or works should 

not be painted, plastered or covered with any other material.  

Subdivision Details  

P58   The  integrity  of  the  original  subdivision  pattern  of the  Malvern  Hill  Estate  should  be 
preserved. Subdivision of any type is generally discouraged. Strata subdivision is not 
permitted.  

Dual Occupancy Details  

P59   Detached dual occupancies are not deemed appropriate to this Conservation Area.  

P60  Any  other  form  of  dual  occupancy  development  should  conform  to  all  of  the  BDCP 

requirements for this Conservation Area.  

P61   Strata  subdivision  of  dual  occupancies  is  not  permissible  within  the  Conservation 

Area.  

Additional Controls for New Development  

P62   The major design form of a new building should be compatible with the conservation 
area such buildings generally should be asymmetrical in plan and massing. The scale 
and  style  of  new  development  should  depict  and  reflect  that  of  the  predominant 
stylistic features within the Conservation Area.  

P63   Feature elements are necessary to avoid large blank façades, both to the street and 
on side elevations, and, in residential development, may include bay windows (within 
limits),  verandahs,  protruding  gables,  with  hipped  or  gabled  roof  lines  which  exhibit 
variations in line but are generally well pitched in accordance with their architectural 
style.  

P64  A new building should relate sympathetically to the street and the adjoining buildings.  

P65   Ancillary buildings (garages, garden sheds, workshops, etc) should complement the 
proposed  main  building  for  the  site,  with  design  and  detailing  typical  of  the 
conservation area wherever possible, and particularly where they are visible from the 
street. 

P66   The  removal  of  uncharacteristic  or  unsympathetic  ancillary  buildings  from  the 

conservation area is generally encouraged.  

P67   Garages and carports on corner sites should be located at the rear of the rear yard 

and should not be forward of the building line of the adjacent dwelling.  

The Strand Shopping Centre  

Advisory Note:  
This section additionally applies to buildings and uses on the east and west sides of The Strand shopping centre, 
Croydon. It establishes principles and provides guidelines for façade alterations only to existing buildings within 
The Strand shopping centre. It is additional to other provisions for heritage in centres contained in Section 3.8. 

213 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P68  Preservation,  reinstatement  and  maintenance  of  original  façades  and  shopfronts  is 

required.  

P69   To  achieve  appropriate  development  to  the  original  façades  and  shopfronts  within 

The Strand, proposals shall satisfy the following aims:  

 
 
 
 
Preserve and maintain original parapets, with existing detailing, unpainted and 
free of hoarding and signs. 

Restore  and  maintain  original  upper  level  windows,  with  alternatives,  being 
sympathetic in scale and proportion.  

Replacement downpipe and guttering to be circular in section.  

Retention of continuous awning at unified heights and fascia to each shop.  

P70   First  floor  balconies  should  remain  open,  as  important  functional  and  architectural 
elements  of  the  front  façade.  Enclosure  of  balconies  will  only  be  permitted  if 
compatibility with original window types can be demonstrated.  

P71   Rear elevations and structures are to be treated and maintained in a manner that is 

of quality and character appropriate to The Strand and its controls.  

P72   The profile of the front parapet wall should be maintained as a silhouette against the 

sky.  

P73   The removal of first floor windows that have altered the profile of former openings is 

encouraged, with the original window to be restored.  

P74   The level of overhead awnings above footpath level should match existing.  

P75   Overhead  awnings  shall  be  of  a  uniform  depth  and form  to  match  that  predominant 
within the terrace group, with timber fascia and gutter to be maintained or reinstated 
on buildings that originally featured a timber fascia, where appropriate.  

P76   New  shopfronts  shall  reflect  original  details  and  proportions,  including  the  siting  of 

recessed entrance doors.  

P77  Gable  ends  to  the  roof above  eaves  level  should  retain  their  existing  details,  where 

present.  

P78  The  symmetry  about  the  central  shop  within  each  group  of  three  shops  shall  be 

maintained, in particular at eaves level, in roof pitch and ridge level.  

P79    Visible pitched roofs shall be finished in slate or unglazed “Marseilles” terracotta tiles.  

214 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5  Other Development Provisions 

This  section  provides  general  and  specific  requirements  for  development  other  than  that 
dealt with in Part 3 (Centres and corridors) and Part 4 (Residential areas).  

5.1 

Subdivision of Land 

The BLEP 2012 sets development standards for minimum subdivision lot sizes in Clause 4.1 
and the Lot Size Map.   

In calculating lot size, the access handle for hatchet-shaped allotments is excluded. 

The following controls apply in the R1, R2 and R3 Residential zones:  

 
 
 
 
All lots must have frontage to a street frontage to a lane alone is not accepted. 

The minimum width of a lot at the street frontage is 12m, or in the case of a hatchet-
shaped lot, the minimum width of the main body of a lot (excluding the access handle) 
is 12m. 

The access handle of hatchet-shaped lots must have a minimum width of 2.5m. 

Lots  should  generally  be  regular  in  shape  (i.e.  rectangular).  Boundaries  that  kink  or 
dogleg around structures, or result in impractical spaces, shall be avoided. 

Advisory Note:  
There are additional provisions for the subdivision of land if it pertains to a heritage item or a property within a 
heritage conservation area (Refer to Section 4.7). Subdivision of a heritage property is generally not supported. 

5.2 

Health Consulting Rooms  

Health  consulting  rooms  are  permitted  with  consent  in  all  residential  and  business  zones 
under  the  Burwood  Local  Environmental  Plan  (BLEP)  2012.  The  BLEP  defines  health 
consulting rooms as “premises comprising one or more rooms within (or within the curtilage 
of) a dwelling house used by not more than three health care professionals at any one time”. 

The following control applies:  

The portion of a dwelling house used as a health consulting room must not exceed 50% of 
the floor area.  

5.3 

Child Care Centres  

5.3.1 

 Introduction 

This  BDCP  section  provides  guidance  for  development  of  child  care  centres  by  the 
establishment  of  additional  provisions  required  by  Council.  This  section  applies  d  to  child 
care activities that are covered by the definitions of a centre-based child care facility, school-
based child care, and home-based child care under the BLEP 2012.  

5.3.2 Aims 

The overall aims are:  

 
 
To  promote  excellence  and  best  practice  in  the  design  and  operation  of  child  care 
centres.  

To  promote  the  establishment  of  child  care  centres  that  meet  the  needs  of  the 
community. 

215 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To ensure that proposals for new or enlarged child care centres respond positively to 
their  context  and  setting,  have  minimal  environmental  impact  are  compatible  with 
neighbouring land uses and integrate into existing residential environments. 

To provide child care centres that will support the effective implementation of an early 
childhood teaching program and assist staff in providing essential support, supervision, 
care and education of young children. 

To  encourage the  development of  child  care  centres that  maximise the health,  safety 
and well-being of children and staff in child care centres. 

5.3.3 

 Relationship with other Legislation, Plans and Policies  

This  Section  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  other  relevant  legislation,  plans  or  policies 
including:  

Children and Young Persons (Care and Protection) Act 1998 No. 157 (the Act)  
Licensing approval for operation of a child care centre or the expansion of an existing centre 
should be obtained from the applicable State Government agency under this Act.  

The Regulation under the above Act 
To  obtain  a  license,  the  Act  requires  a  children’s  services  provider  to  comply  with  the 
Regulation  issued  under  the  Act.  Applicants  will  need  to  liaise  with  the  applicable  State 
Government  agency  prior  to  submitting  a  DA  with  Council  and  prior  to  the  issue  of  a 
Construction Certificate (CC) or use of an approved child care centre.  

Building Code of Australia (BCA)  
BCA compliance is necessary in order to be granted a CC. The BCA specifies the relevant 
standards which apply to centre based children’s services. There are technical requirements 
relating  to  structural  considerations,  fire  resistance,  access  and  egress,  services  and 
equipment, health and amenity.  

Food Act 2003 (incorporating food safety standards)  
Where child care centres conduct food preparation on their premises, the activity is subject 
to the provisions of the NSW Food Act. This legislation adopts national food safety standards 
which  apply  to  all  food  businesses  and  places  requirements  on  the  operator  to  ensure  the 
facilities provide for the safe preparation of food.  

The  Road  Hierarchy  Plan.  A  copy  of  the  current  version  is  included  in  the  appendices 
section  of  this  DCP  (refer  to  Section  8.4).  Applicants  should  confirm  with  Council  that  the 
version in the appendix is up to date prior to lodging any DA.  

Any relevant Australian Standards (AS), particularly:  
AS/NZS 1428.4:2009: Design for access and mobility  
AS/NZS 2890.1:2004/Amendment 1:2005: Parking facilities  
AS/NZS 4422:1996: Playgrounds surfacing – Specifications, requirements and test method and  
AS/NZS  4486.1:1997:  Playgrounds  and  playground  equipment  –  Development,  installation, 

inspection, maintenance and operation.  

Department  of  Community  Services  and  Prue  Walsh  Play  Environment  Consultant. 
Best Practices Guidelines in Early Childhood Physical Environments. 1998. This document is 
referred to as The Best Practice Guidelines in this DCP section. 

216 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3.4   Child Care Centre Approval Process  

Making an Application  

Child  care  centres require  both  development consent from  Council,  and  a  licence from  the 
applicable State Government agency under the Care and Protection Act. It is essential that 
applicants liaise both with this agency and Council early in the planning process.  

The steps in obtaining approval are as follows:  

 
 
 
 
Consultation  with  Council  to  determine  requirements  and  community  needs  before 
selecting and purchasing a site or preparing plans.  

Applicants  to  consult  with  the  applicable  State  Government  agency  to  determine 
licensing  requirements  before  selecting  a  site  or  preparing  plans.  At  all  times,  the 
applicant  is  to  refer  to  the  specific  controls  and  requirements  of  the  Care  and 
Protection Act and Regulation.  

Site selection, site analysis and plan preparation. Consider pre-lodgement meeting with 
Council prior to submitting DA.  

Submit  a  Development  Application  to  Council,  including  the  information  contained  in 
the checklist in Appendix 8.3.  

State Government Licensing Requirements  

Every applicant must consult the applicable State Government agency and obtain the most 
recent publications for the establishment of a child care centre.  

5.3.5   Development Controls  

DAs for child care centres must address the development provisions below. If a DA fails to 
comply  with  one  or  more  of  the  development  controls,  the  applicant  should  detail  how  the 
objectives have otherwise been met.  

Site Selection and Location  

Objectives 

O1  To ensure that child care centres are located on sites:  

  Where the facility is compatible with neighbouring land uses.  

 
The amenity of neighbours is maintained. 

  Which are accessible by public and private transport.  

O2  To provide a safe and healthy environment for children attending the facility and that 
minimise the potential for environmental hazards, such as electro radiation, noise and 
air  pollution  to  impact  adversely  on  the  health  of  children,  staff  and  others  attending 
the centre. 

O3  To determine the appropriate capacity of a child care centre site, by assessing:  

 
 
The  characteristics  of  the  site,  including  the  site's  ability  to  provide  adequate 
building and playground facilities to meet the needs of children and staff. 

The  characteristics  of  the  surrounding  locality,  and  in  particular  adjoining  land 
uses. 

217 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
O4  To  incorporate  landscaping  to  protect  the  visual  and  acoustic  privacy  of  adjoining 
properties  and  provide  adequate  screening  for  outdoor  play  areas  and  enhance 
streetscape presentation of the development. 

Provisions 

Compatibility with Surrounding Land Uses 

P1   Applicants  must  demonstrate  that  the  proposed  child  care  centre  will  not  impact 
adversely  on  the  surrounding  locality  and  in  particular,  the  amenity  of  adjoining 
occupants. 

P2   Applicants must demonstrate that the surrounding locality and land uses on adjoining 
land  will  not  impact  adversely  on  the  amenity  of  children,  staff  and  others  occupying 
the child care centre. 

P3   A site for a child care centre must not be located within 100 metres, or within sight, of 

land used for Sex Services Premises or Restricted Premises. 

Site Responsive Design  

P4  Council will consider the results of the site analysis and must be satisfied that:  

 
 
The analysis has been used as a basis for the subsequent design of the child 
care centre and that the design of the child care centre is suitable for the site. 

Is  satisfactory  in  terms  of  its  impact  on  the  streetscape  and  character  of 
surrounding development and the local environment. 

  Will have minimal impact on the amenity of neighbouring properties. 

Accessibility 

P5  Child  care  centres  must  be  located  close  to,  or  adjacent  to  community  focal  points 
such  as  local  shopping  centres,  schools,  community  buildings,  sports  facilities,  or 
public transport. 

P6 

The following areas must not have a slope that exceeds 1:10: 

 
 
 
Every entry to a child care centre, not being an entry for staff only. 

The whole of the Playground. 

Child Accessible Areas within a Building. 

P7  A  continuous  path  of  travel  must  be  provided  to  allow  access  for  people  with  a 
disability  to  the  street  frontage,  car  parking  and  main  entrance  of  the  building  and 
should extend to all facilities and useable open spaces within the site. Applicants must 
refer  to  Australian  Standard  AS/NZS  1428.4:2009:  Design for  access  and  mobility  to 
assist  the  orientation  of  people  with  vision  impairment  for  details  of  the  applicable 
standards to meet this control. 

General Provisions Applicable to Child Care Centres in All Zones 

Mandatory Reports  

P1  An acoustic report must be prepared and submitted as part of the DA by an accredited 
acoustic consultant (having qualifications eligible for membership to the Association of 
Australian Acoustical Consultants).  

218 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
P2  A  landscape  plan  must  be  prepared  and  submitted  as  part  of  the  DA  by  a  suitably 

qualified professional. 

Land Contamination Assessment  

P3  Where  a  child  care  centre  is  proposed  on  a  site  that  is  identified  as  potentially 
unhealthy or contaminated, an environmental site contamination assessment must be 
submitted  with  the  DA  to  demonstrate  that  the  site  is  environmentally  safe  and  is 
suitable for use as a child care centre.  

The provisions of State Environmental Planning Policy 55 (SEPP 55 - Remediation of 
Land) may apply.  

Environmental Hazards  

P4  A child care centre must not be located within 30 metres of an electricity transmission 

line carrying a load equal to or greater than 132kV. 

P5  Council may refuse a child care centre that is located within 300m of a mobile phone 

tower.  

Heritage Assessment  

P6  Where a child care centre is proposed on a site: 

 
 
On which a heritage item is situated 

Adjacent to or within the vicinity of land on which a heritage item is situated 

  Within a heritage conservation area 

A heritage impact statement (HIS) must be submitted with the DA to enable Council to 
take  into  consideration  the  extent  to  which  the  carrying  out  of  the  proposed 
development would affect the heritage significance of the heritage item and its setting 
or the heritage significance of the conservation area. 

Fire Safety and Evacuation Plan 

A  fire  safety  and  evacuation  plan  is  required  to  be  lodged  with  Council  prior  to  the 

P7 
issuing of the Occupation Certificate. 

Special Provisions in Residential Zones 

Objectives 

O1   To  ensure  that  child  care  centres  do  not  undermine  or  compromise  the  amenity  of 

residential areas.  

O2   To promote child care centre building forms that are compatible with the character of 

existing surrounding residential development.  

To  allow  child  care  centres  where  best  practice  standards  of  indoor  and  outdoor 

O3  
unencumbered spaced is provided. 

219 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Provisions 

General 

P1  Applicants  must  demonstrate  that  the  proposed  child  care  centre  will  not  impact 
adversely  on  the  surrounding  locality  and,  in  particular,  the  amenity  of  adjoining 
occupants. 

P2  Applicants  must  also  demonstrate  that  the  surrounding  locality  and  land  uses  on 
adjoining  land  will  not  impact  adversely  on  the  amenity  of  children,  staff  and  others 
occupying the child care centre.  

P3 

 site used for a child care centre must not be used for residential purposes unless the 
residence  is  located  in  an  upper  storey  separate  from  the  child  care  centre  and 
accessed by way of a separate entrance. 

Minimum Site Area 

P4   The  minimum  site  area  for  a  child  care  centre  on  a  residential  zoned  land  is  600 

square metres excluding Rights of Way and access handles.  

Ratio of Child Places   

P5   Child  care  centres  must  provide  a  maximum  30%  of  the  places  for  children  under  2 
years  of  age.  The  remaining  70%  of  the  total  number  of  children  shall  be  above  2 
years  and  less  than  6  years  of  age  who  do  not ordinarily  attend  school. Please  also 
refer to the relevant provisions of the Regulation.  

Setbacks  

P6  

Setbacks  must  be  consistent  with  the  minimum  setback  requirements  for  the  major 
form  of  development  in  the  zone  in  which  the  child  care  centre  is  proposed  to  be 
located, e.g. single dwelling houses in the R2 Low Density Residential zone. 

Special Provisions in All Non-Residential Land Use Zones 

Objectives 

O1   To ensure that the proposed child care centre will be compatible with the objectives of 

the relevant land use zone.  

O2   To  ensure  that  proposed  child  care  centres  in  non-residential  zones  are  compatible 
with,  and  do  not  affect  the  operation  of,  any  existing  or  likely  future  non-residential 
land uses in the immediate vicinity.  

O3   To  provide  opportunities  for  child  care  places  close  to  workplaces  and  business 

centres. 

Provisions 

General 

P1  Child care centres larger than 75 children will require special consideration regarding 

site area. 

P2   A site used for a child care centre must not be used for residential purposes. 

220 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P3   Applicants must demonstrate that the surrounding locality and land uses on adjoining 
land  will  not  impact  adversely  on  the  amenity  of  children,  staff  and  others  occupying 
the child care centre. 

Minimum Site Area 

P4   The minimum site area for a child care centre on a non-residential zoned land is 700 

square metres excluding Rights of Way and access handles.  

Ratio of Child Places 

P5   Child  care  centres  must  provide  a  maximum  30%  of  the  places  for  children  under  2 
years  of  age.  The  remaining  70%  of  the  total  number  of  children  shall  be  above  2 
years  of  age  or  less  than  6  years  who  do  not  ordinarily  attend  school.  Please  also 
refer to the relevant provisions of the Regulation.  

Indoor and Outdoor Space Requirements and Maximum Number of Children  

Overview 

This  subsection  does  not  stipulate  the  maximum  site  area  requirements  or  minimum  child 
numbers  but  rather  relies  upon  the  applicable  Regulation  requirements  for  minimum 
unencumbered  indoor  and  unencumbered  outdoor  space  to  become  key  determinants  in 
establishing a site’s overall size.  

Objectives 

O1  To ensure the minimum unencumbered indoor and unencumbered outdoor space are 

provided on a child care centre site.  

O2  To ensure the maximum number of children at a child care centre facility is appropriate 

to the maximum site area. 

Provisions 

Minimum Indoor and Outdoor Space Requirements  

P1 

The  minimum  amount  of  indoor  unencumbered  space  and  outdoor  unencumbered 
space  to  be  provided  per  child  at  a  child  care  centre  must  comply  with  the 
requirements of the Regulation as follows: 

 
 
At least 3.25 square metres of useable indoor play space per child exclusively 
for use of children. 

At least 7.0 square metres of useable outdoor play space per child exclusively 
for use of children.  

P2   For the purpose of calculating useable unencumbered outdoor play space, items such 
as Right of Ways (ROW) in addition to required car parking, are to be excluded.  

Maximum Number of Children 

P3   The  maximum  number  of  children  shall  be  determined  through  establishing  the 
minimum  unencumbered  internal  play  space  per  child  and  minimum  unencumbered 
outdoor play space per child together with the relevant minimum site area provisions, 
thus creating a sliding scale of the number of places relative to the site area. 

221 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Internal Design and Functionality  

Objective 

O1   To  provide  attractive,  safe  and  functional  indoor  spaces  which  provide  for  positive 
experiences  and  developmental  growth  of  children  and  enable  adequate  staff 
supervision of children at all times. 

Provisions 

Playrooms 

P1   Each  playroom  must  contain  sufficient  internal  floor  space  at  corners  and  walls  to 
enable  at  least five  set up  zones  to  be  created in  accordance  with  the Best  Practice 
Guidelines. 

P2   Bathroom  facilities  must  be  positioned  adjacent  to  playrooms  such  that  the  facilities 

may be immediately accessed from each playroom. 

Access 

P3   The child care centre building must provide: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  clearly  defined  path  of  travel  from  the  entrance  to  the  building  to  each 
playroom and out to the playground. 

An  internal  access  corridor  to  prevent  playrooms  being  used  as  major  access 
points. 

Playroom layout such as to include one clearly  defined path of travel so as to 
maximise uninterrupted playroom space. 

Ease of access between the building and playground through the provision of a 
continuous surface or provision of ramped access to the playground. 

Immediate access from the playrooms to verandahs or terrace spaces. 

Ease of access between the playrooms and children’s toilets. 

A  layout  that  facilitates  viewing  of  internal  Child  Accessible  Areas,  including 
viewing of routes between these Areas, for example, hallways and toilets. 

A layout that facilitates viewing between internal areas and the playground. 

Reinforced windows or glass panels that allow staff to supervise internal areas 
and the playground.  

Backup Facilities 

P4   A child care centre must have an area strategically located and/or set aside for: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
An administration area adjoining the entry foyer. 

A  director's  office  where  consultation  with  staff  of  the  Centre  and  parents  of 
children attending may occur. 

A staffroom. 

A sleep area where at least 2.5 square metres is provided for every child under 
two years of age attending the Centre. 

An adult toilet area that allows access for people with a disability. 

Laundry facilities. 

222 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bathroom facilities should be sited immediately adjoining playrooms. 

Storage 

P5   The child care centre building must provide: 

 
 
 
A large spatial area easily accessible from playrooms for storage purposes. 

Space for storage of bedding for each child attending the child care centre and 
aged from 3 to 5 years. 

A cleaner's store. 

P6  

The amount of space allocated to each of the Backup and Storage facilities needs to 
be  carefully  assessed,  taking  into  account  the  total  number  of  children  to  be 
accommodated,  the  age  requirements,  and  the  type  of  Children's  Services  to  be 
provided. 

Playground and Landscaping Requirements  

Overview 

This  section  of  the  BDCP  Part  applies  to  the  provision  of  outdoor  play  spaces  and 
playgrounds of the child care centre. These spaces are vital to the children as they provide 
the only opportunity for active play.  

Objectives 

O1   To provide an outdoor play setting for children which will accommodate different forms 
of  play  and  assist  in  the  overall  development  of  children’s  developmental  skills  e.g. 
gross motor, physical, social and intellectual. 

O2    To  provide  an  outdoor  play  setting  for  children  which  addresses  key  safety 

requirements including appropriate fencing and restriction to public access. 

O3  To create a sensory rich, visually attractive setting in which children can learn through 

play. 

O4  To provide landscaping to child care centres that will make it compatible to adjoining 

properties and enhance the visual attractiveness of the neighbourhood. 

O5  To avoid plant species that may be hazardous to children. 

Provisions 

P1   The  playground  must  include  an  Open  Play  Area,  a  Quiet  Play  Area  and  an  Active 

Area to be established in accordance with the Best Practice Guidelines.  

P2  

If babies/toddlers are being catered for, the playground must also provide a separate 
Baby/Toddler play area in accordance with the Best Practice Guidelines. 

P3  

If no Baby/Toddler play area is required the Open, Quiet and Active play areas must 
each be one-third of the total playground area. 

P4  

If a Baby/Toddler play area is required, the Open, Quiet, Active and Baby/Toddler play 
areas must each be one-quarter of the total playground area. 

P5   The  Quiet  Area  must  incorporate  a  sandpit  and  shaded  area  in  accordance  with  the 

Best Practice Guidelines. 

223 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P6   A Baby/Toddler play area must provide a sandpit or at least immediate access to the 

sandpit and shaded area in the Quiet Area. 

P7   The  Active  Area  must  contain  soft fall  surfaces that  comply  with  Australian  Standard 

AS/NZS4422:1996 – playground surfacing.  

P8   The  playground  and  fixed  playground  equipment  must  comply  with  the  Australian 

Standard with respect to structures, heights, placements and surfacing. 

P9  Storage  facilities  for  outside  areas  must  be  provided  as  a  separate  shed  or  room 

attached to the main building and are to be child accessible. 

P10  At least 50% of the playground must be shaded using natural and fixed shade shelters 
in  accordance  with  the  NSW  Cancer  Council  and  the  NSW  Government  publication 
Under Cover: Guidelines for Shade Planning and Design. 

P11  Plants  must  be  the  most  dominant  element  in  the  playground  and  must  encompass 
shade trees, shrubs adjoining the fences and low level child accessible plants. 

P12  All  DAs  must  be  accompanied  by  a  landscape  plan  prepared  by  a  suitably  qualified 

landscape designer. 

P13  Any  poisonous  or  potentially  dangerous  plants  and  trees  must  be  removed  from  the 
site prior to construction, subject to approval by Council. Details of these plants/trees 
are to be provided with the DA. 

Hours of Operation 

Objective 

O1   To  ensure  hours  of  operation  are  compatible  with,  and result  in minimal disruption  to 
neighbouring  land  uses  and  have  minimal  effect  upon  the  amenity  of  adjoining 
neighbours in residential areas. 

Provision 

P1  Child  care  centres  located  in  a  residential  area  or  in  an  area  adjoining  a  residential 

area must only operate between 7.00am and 6.30pm weekdays. 

Traffic, Parking and Access  

Objectives 

O1   To  ensure  child  care  centres  are  sited  and  designed to  allow  the  safe  set  down  and 

pick up of children and the safe movement of children to and from the centre. 

O2   To ensure child care centres are sited and designed to allow safe vehicular movement 

and parking by staff, parents, visitors and service vehicles. 

O3   To ensure child care centres are sited and designed to allow safe vehicular movement 

and parking by staff, parents, visitors and service vehicles. 

O4   To  ensure  parking  does  not  significantly  modify  the  visual  quality  and  character  of 

residential areas. 

O5   To ensure off-street parking areas are designed to retain and enhance the quality and 

integrity of the streetscape. 

224 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
O6   To  minimise  congestion  on  adjoining  streets  caused  by  additional  traffic  and  parking 
generated  by  child  care  centres  and  to  therefore  minimise  inconvenience  to  nearby 
residents. 

O7   To  ensure  child  care  centres  provide  access  for  the  mobility-impaired  and  adults 

accompanied by children and prams. 

Provisions 

Minimum Car Parking and Access Requirements for All Child Care Centres  

P1   Car  parking  must  be  provided  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  for  child  care 
centre in Table 5, including the provisions dealing with parking spaces for people with 
disabilities.  All  spaces  must  be  clearly  labelled  as  either  "reserved  for  staff"  or 
"reserved for parents". 

P2   Parallel parking to the footpath with entry path into the centre must be encouraged to 

assist safe child access. 

P3   The  main  entry  pathway  areas  from  the  road  to  the  building  must  be  at  least  1.8 

metres wide and clearly delineated. 

P4  

If on-site parking is provided in a right-angled layout, pathway access from the front of 
the car must be provided to the main entry to the centre. 

P5   Bollards must be installed between the edge of any on-site car park and pathway from 

that car park to the child care centre. Bollards must be at least 1.2m in height. 

P6   At  least  one  right-angled  parking  space  having  a  minimum  width  of  3.8 metres  must 
be provided on site and reserved for use by parents to assist in moving large numbers 
of small children with prams or a child with a disability.  

P7   All access by vehicles to and from the child care centre is to be in a forward direction. 

P8   A two way vehicle access driveway must be provided. The grade of the driveway must 
comply  strictly  with  Australian  Standard  AS/NZS  2890.1:2004/Amendment  1:2005: 
parking facilities. 

P9  Where vehicle access to a child care centre is from a road designated as a collector 
road  or  above  on  the  Road  Hierarchy  Plan  (Section  8.4)  a  left  in/  out  arrangement 
must be provided. 

P10   Lines  of  sight  from  access  driveways  to  through  traffic  must  not  be  obstructed  by 

vegetation. 

Additional  Car  Parking  Requirements  Where  Maximum  Capacity  of  Child  Care  Centres  is 
Proposed 

P11  One  designated  disabled  parking  space  must  be  provided  that  complies  with 
Australian Standard AS/NZS 2890.1:2004/Amendment 1:2005: parking facilities. 

P12  The designated space must be: 

 
 
Located on the entry side of the frontage to the child care centre, 

Located  in  close  proximity  to  a  wheelchair  accessible  entry  to  the  child  care 
centre. 

225 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protected from vehicular traffic. 

P13  A passing lane must be provided to the standing area reserved for ten minute intervals 
for  the  purpose  of  dropping  off  and  collecting  children.  The  standing  area  must  be 
positioned on the entry side of the frontage to the child care centre. 

P14   Vehicular  access  arrangements 

to  comply  with  Australian  Standard  AS/NZS 
2890.1:2004/Amendment 1:2005: parking facilities, particular with respect to driveway 
dimensions  (whether  single  driveway  or  one  way  system  with  two  driveways  are 
provided) and shall be clear of any on-site standing area used for parking. 

P15   Walkways within the car park must be clearly delineated. 

Basement Car Parking Provisions for All Child Care Centres 

P16   Basement  car  parks  may  be  permitted for  Child  car  centres  on  land  with  frontage to 
local  and  classified  roads  following  appropriate  consideration  of  the  impacts  on  the 
residential amenity of the streetscape.   

P17 

In  order  to  prevent  the  proliferation  of  basement  car  parks  on  a  particular  street, 
Council will not permit child care centres with basement car parks on a street, unless it 
is  satisfied  that  the  development  preserves  the  character  and  visual  amenity  of  the 
streetscape.  

P18  Where a basement car park for a child care centre is permitted, the car park must be 

no greater than 500mm above the existing natural ground level.  

P19  Where  a  basement  car  park  for  a  child  care  centre  is  permitted,  the  entry  to  the 
basement  requires  careful  consideration  in  order  to  ensure  that  the  amenity  and 
character of the streetscape is maintained.  

P20  All  basement  car  parks  require  that  vehicles  enter  and  leave  the  site  in  a  forward 

direction.  

P21  Where  a  basement  car  park  for  child  care  centres  is  permitted,  and  is  for  use  by 
parents  delivering  or  collecting  children,  the  design  of  the  car  park  must  include  a 
pedestrian  access  path  that  removes  the  need  to  cross  the  path  of  moving  vehicles 
(including parking manoeuvres) when entering or leaving the child care centre. 

P22   Pedestrian congregation points (for example, at lift wells) in the basement car park are 

to be well lit, delineated and protected from through flow of traffic. 

P23   Access to and from the car park must be via a two way 5.5m wide (kerb to kerb) ramp. 
The Ramp grades from the basement car park and transition zones must comply with 
Australian Standard AS/NZS 2890.1:2004/Amendment 1:2005: parking facilities. 

P24   The  minimum  height  clearance  must  be  2.2m.  A  2.5m  clearance  must  be  provided 
above the designated disabled parking space in line with Australian Standard AS/NZS 
2890.1:2004/Amendment 1:2005: parking facilities. 

P25   A turning area must be provided within the basement car park which is clearly marked 

as a non-parking area. 

P26   All pedestrian access to and from the Child Care facility and the basement car park is 
to be clear of the entry point and to be via a lift or ramp. Whether via a lift or ramp, the 
pedestrian access must be wheelchair accessible.  

226 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P27   Parking  and  vehicle  access  areas  must  be  separated from  children’s  areas  by  child-

proof safety fencing and gates. 

P28   Any security grill guarding entry to a basement car park must be left open during the 

hours of operation of the child care centre. 

Noise  

Overview 

The  high  density  usage  of  small  spaces  combined  with  insufficient  variety,  diversity  and 
number  of  play  opportunities  for  children  are  a  known  cause  of  a  breakdown  in  children’s 
behaviour  with  an  ensuing  increase  in  noise.  In  addition,  the  competing  requirements  of 
locating accessible child care centres in residential neighbourhoods, providing generous and 
unencumbered  outdoor  spaces  for  children  to  enjoy  their  activities  and  the  right  of  nearby 
neighbours  to  a  reasonable  level  of  noise  amenity  are  potentially  at  conflict  and  require  a 
considered approach to a child care centre’s planning. 

Objectives 

O1   To  provide  for  the  visual  and  acoustic  privacy  of  nearby  residents  in  their  dwellings 

and private open spaces.  

O2   To  ensure  that  a  child  care  centre  in  a  residential  area  does  not  generate 
unacceptable noise levels such as to impact adversely upon the amenity of adjoining 
properties and other properties close to the site. 

O3   To  recognise  that  providing  adequate  space,  variety,  diversity  and  play  opportunities 
for  children  will  play  a  role  in  reducing  the  noise  levels  experienced  by  adjoining 
properties and other properties close to the site. 

O4   To protect children from excessive noise which may be generated by proximity to 

roads, industrial premises, aircraft or rail operations. 

Advisory Note:  
The  meaning  of  all  technical  terms  contained  herein  shall  be  that  defined  in  the  State  Government’s  NSW 
Industrial Noise Policy (the “INP”) and the Environmental Noise Criteria for Road Traffic Noise (the “ECRTN”). 

Provisions 

P1  All indoor areas must be considered for noise minimisation measures such as acoustic 

cladding, windows, flooring.  

P2   An acoustic report must be prepared and submitted as part of the DA by an accredited 
acoustic consultant (having qualifications eligible for membership to the Association of 
Australian Acoustical Consultants). 

P3   The LAeq (15 minute) noise level emitted from the site (including playground activity 
noise  and  indoor  activity  noise)  shall  not  exceed  the  Rating  Background  Level  (the 
“RBL”) by more than 5dBA (“background level + 5dBA”) at the assessment location. 

P4   The assessment location is defined as follows: 

 
 
The most affected point on or within any residential property boundary at 1.5m 
above ground level 

At  any  residential  façade  at  1.5m  above  the  ground  floor  level  or  the  balcony 
level or outside area level of any residence 

227 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For residences having a second or higher storey, at the façade of the residence 
or  room  affected  at  1.5m  above  the  floor  level  or  the  balcony  level  or  outside 
area level. 

P5  

The following adjustments apply: 

 
 
The RBL shall be adjusted for the total duration of noise emitted from the child 
care  centre  in  any  one  day  in  accordance  with  the  table  “Adjustments  for 
duration” contained in the INP. The reference in this table to “one event in any 
24 hour period” shall be ignored 

The “modifying factor corrections” contained in the INP shall not be applied 

  When assessing noise at a façade, a correction shall not be applied for façade 

effect. 

P6   Where  the  level  of  noise  exceeds  background  level  +  5dBA  noise,  mitigation 
measures  shall  be  implemented  to  ensure  compliance  with  this  noise  level.  Such 
measures could include a limit on the number of children at play at any one time or a 
limit  on  the  total  time  of  play,  the  appropriate  placement  of  buildings  constructed  on 
site to shield the noise or the provision of acoustic fencing or landscaping. However, 
such measures shall not impact adversely upon the amenity of surrounding properties 
or the streetscape and character of the locality.  

P7   Traffic noise generated by  vehicles associated with the development both on and off 
the site (for example vehicles on a car park on the site, travelling on access ramps or 
on  the  street)  shall  comply  with  the  requirements  of  the  EPA’s  ECRTN  at  any 
residential façade. In respect of compliance with the ECRTN, a correction for façade 
effect shall be applied to all noise levels as described therein. 

P8   Where  reasonable  and  feasible,  appropriate  noise  mitigation  measures  shall  be 
implemented to minimise adverse impact to neighbours caused by car doors slamming 
and  the  sounds  of  parents  and  children  arriving  or  departing  the  centre.  Such 
measures  could  include  the  judicious  (careful)  positioning  of  arrival  and  departure 
access points away from residential property boundaries, the appropriate placement of 
buildings constructed on site to shield the noise or the provision of acoustic fencing or 
landscaping. However, such measures shall not impact adversely upon the amenity of 
surrounding properties or the streetscape and character of the locality. 

P9   Outdoor  playgrounds  should  not  be  located  adjacent  to  the  living/bedroom  areas  of 

adjoining residents. 

P10   Consideration should be given to noise minimisation related to hard-paved areas and 

pathways within the children’s play area.  

P11   All external pedestrian gates shall be fitted with appropriate door closers to provide a 
slow and regulated closing of the gate to prevent the generation of impact sound. 

P12   To  prevent  the  cumulative  impact  of  activity  noise  and  noise  from  any  mechanical 
plant servicing the centre, the LAeq (15 minute) noise level from all mechanical plant 
operating  together  installed  on  the  premises  shall  not  exceed  the  RBL  (“background 
level  +  0dBA”)  at  the  most  affected  point  on  or  within  any  residential  property 
boundary. 

External Noise Impact on Children in the Child Care Centre 

P13   For proposals that are located on or within 60 metres direct distance of a major arterial 
road,  and/or  adjacent  to  or  within  60  metres  of  a  railway  line,  a  noise  assessment 
must be submitted with the Development Application. 

228 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P14   The  LAeq  (1  hour)  ambient  noise  level  at  any  location  within  the  boundary  of  the 
centre including any outdoor play or activity area during the hours when the centre is 
operating  shall  not  exceed  the  “Recommended  Maximum”  noise  level  indicated  for 
“school  playground”  in  the  table  “Amenity  criteria”  nominated  in  the  EPA’s  NSW 
Industrial Noise Policy”. 

P15   Where  the  level  of  noise  exceeds  the  limit,  noise  mitigation  measures  shall  be 
implemented to ensure compliance with this noise level. Such measures could include 
restricting  outdoor  play  to  periods  when  the  noise  level  can  be  complied  with,  the 
appropriate  placement  of  buildings  constructed  on  site  to  shield  the  noise  or  the 
provision  of  acoustic  fencing  or  landscaping.  However,  such  measures  shall  not 
impact  adversely  upon  the  amenity  of  surrounding  properties  or  the  streetscape  and 
character of the locality. 

Privacy Considerations  

Objectives 

O1   To  ensure  a  child  care  centre  does  not  interfere  with  the  visual  privacy  or  amenity 
enjoyed  by  those  occupying  residential  sites  in  proximity  to  a  proposed  child  care 
centre. 

O2   To  ensure  that  children  and  staff  occupying  a  child  care  centre  experience  visual 

privacy and amenity. 

Provisions 

P1   A child care centre must be sited and designed so that it does not overshadow other 
residential  or  commercial  sites  in  proximity  to  the  centre  nor  create  a  possibility  of 
overlooking  these  sites  unless  this  overshadowing  or  overlooking  does  not  detract 
from the privacy or amenity of these properties. 

P2   A  child  care  centre  must  be  sited  and  designed  so  that  adjoining  or  proximate 
properties  cannot  overshadow  the  child  care  centre  and  do  not  allow  overlooking  of 
activities at the centre. 

P3   Where  there  is  potential  for  the  proposed  child  care  centre  to  overlook  adjacent  or 
proximate properties, or for adjacent or proximate properties to overlook the proposed 
centre,  adequate  visual  screening  may  be  provided  to  minimise  the  overlooking. 
Screening  may  include  trees,  fencing,  trellises  and  window  glazing  or  coverings,  but 
any screening must not impact adversely upon the amenity of surrounding properties 
or the streetscape and character of the locality. 

Sunlight Access and Ventilation  

Objectives 

O1   To minimise overshadowing of neighbouring properties. 

O2   To ensure adequate sunlight to internal and external spaces in child care centres. 

O3  

To ensure appropriate ventilation of internal spaces. 

Provisions 

P1   New child care centres must not reduce solar access to adjoining private open space 

and living areas to less than 3 hours of sunlight between 9am and 3pm on June 21.  

229 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P2   Where,  prior to  erection of  a  new  child  care  centre, solar  access to  adjoining  private 
space and living areas is already less than 3 hours of sunlight between 9am and 3pm 
on June 21, the new child care centre must not reduce solar access at all.  

P3   All  the  playground  area  of  a  new  child  care  centre  must  receive  at  least  3  hours  of 

sunlight between 9am and 3pm on June 21. 

P4   Child  care  centres  must  be  designed  to  maximise  natural  ventilation  of  internal 

spaces. 

Health and Safety  

Objectives 

O1 

To ensure child care centres are healthy and safe for children, staff and visitors. 

Provisions 

P1  Proposals must comply with current Australian Playground Standards.  

P2  Written proof of compliance with AS/NZS4422:1996 - Playground Surfacing 

requirements must be provided. 

Child Care Centres on Classified Roads  

This  section  sets  out  the  additional  provisions  which  must  be  complied  with,  where  an 
application seeks to permit child care centres on a classified road. 

Overview 

Child care centres may be permissible on classified roads, under exceptional circumstances, 
and  only  where  the  proposed  development  complies  with  all  of  the  provisions  below.  This 
section  seeks  to  allow  greater  flexibility  in  locating  child  care  centres  on  classified  roads, 
while at the same time, maintaining and ensuring the highest standards of safety for users 
and occupants of the development.  

Advisory Note:  
Refer to Appendix 8.4: Road Hierarchy Plan to identify which roads may be interpreted as Classified Roads.  

Objectives 

O1   To provide greater opportunities for the provision of child care centres throughout the 

Burwood LGA.  

O2   To ensure the highest possible safety of any child care centres on a classified road. 

Provisions 

Mandatory Reports  

P1  

In addition to all other requirements, a DA seeking approval for a child care centre on 
a classified road must also submit an air quality report prepared by a suitably qualified 
professional  that  verifies  that  the  air  quality  of  the  subject  site  is  within  the  relevant 
guidelines for a child care centre use.  

Access Requirements  

P2   Access must be to a local road in all circumstances where possible.  

230 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P3   All vehicular and pedestrian access to child care centres located on a Classified Road 
which also have frontages to a local unclassified road must be provided via the local, 
unclassified road frontage  with a minimum distance of 30m between the  edge of the 
driveway or pedestrian entry (e.g. kerb alignment) and the edge of the classified road.  

Front Boundary Setback  

P4   An  external  play  area  must  be  set  back  at  least  20  metres  from  the  front  property 
boundary,  which  contains  a  suitable  deep  soil  landscaped  area  to  serve  as  a  buffer 
area.  

Site Safety Measures  

P5   Suitable physical barriers must be provided to prevent wayward vehicles entering the 

site and to ensure protection of the external play areas.  

P6  External wall construction to the elevation fronting the classified road must be suitably 

durable to afford greater protection to all occupants of the development. 

P7  A safety barrier or similar measure (such as a retaining wall on an elevated site) must 
be provided along the property boundary with the classified road to prevent wayward 
vehicles entering the site.  

Pedestrian Safety Measures 

P8  Pedestrian  safety  fencing  around  the  perimeter  of  the  site,  including  the  on-site  car 
parking area must be provided. The design of the perimeter fencing must require that 
all  pedestrian  access  be  provided  via  a  designated  pedestrian  path  which  traverses 
the  car  parking  area  via  a  circuitous,  indirect  route,  to  actively  discourage 
parents/carers from parking on the classified road.  

P9  Pedestrian  safety  fencing  must  be  provided  around  the  perimeter  of  any  child  care 
centre and associated car parking areas on sites located on a Classified Road which 
also have a side or rear street frontage to actively discourage parents from parking on 
the classified road.  

Traffic and Transport Measures  

P10  Car  parking  for  child  care  centres  which  have  a  street  frontage  to  a  classified  road 
only, must be provided at a rate of one space per three children plus one space per 
member of staff to ensure that all car parking demands that are generated by the child 
care centre can be fully accommodated on-site at all times, such that parents and staff 
will  not  find  it  necessary  to  park  on  the  classified  road.  All  spaces  must  be  clearly 
labelled as either "reserved for staff" or "reserved for parents". 

P11  A queuing area should be provided between the property and the first parking space 
on all sites which have a frontage to a classified road only. The formula to determine 
the queuing  area  is Queue  Length  =  X  cars  x 6  metres,  where  X  is the  number of 
children divided by 20, then rounded up to the next whole number.  

P12  For  child  care  centres  which  have  one  street  frontage  to  a  classified  road  only, 
consideration must be given to the provision of an indented deceleration lane on the 
approaches  to  a  child  care  centre  site  access  driveway  in  circumstances  where  the 
prevailing  85th  percentile  vehicle  speed  is  70km/hour  or  more,  unless  it  can  be 
demonstrated  that  the  kerbside  traffic  lane  is  rarely  utilised  by  through  traffic  (e.g.  a 
sealed road shoulder).  

231 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basement Car Parks 

P13  A basement car park is permissible for a child care centre on a classified road so as to 
internalise the impacts and create a safe environment for the loading and unloading of 
children. 

5.4 

Boarding Houses  

This  part  of  the  BDCP  provides  detailed  controls  to  guide  the  development  of  boarding 
houses. Boarding houses are defined under both the BLEP 2012 and the Boarding Houses 
Act 2012. The Boarding Houses Act 2012 considers a building to be a boarding house, if it 
provides beds, for a fee or reward, for use by five or more residents (excluding any residents 
who are proprietors or managers of the building or relatives of the proprietors or managers). 
However,  the  definition  of  a  boarding  house  in  the  BLEP  2012  prevails  for  the  purpose  of 
development assessment.  

Boarding  houses  are  permissible  with  consent  in  all  the  residential  and  business  zones  in 
the BLEP 2012.   

Boarding houses are an important source of affordable long-term accommodation for some 
of  the  most  marginalised  groups  within  the  community.  Boarding  house  residents  include 
older/aged  people,  low  income  earners,  unemployed  persons  and  single  people.  Council 
encourages  the  retention  and  provision  of  boarding  house  stock  to  assist  meeting  the 
household needs of these groups. 

Often people who reside in boarding houses have less access to private open space, shared 
internal  amenities  and  facilities  and  rely  heavily  on  public  transport.  Thus,  the  external 
environment  that  surrounds  the  boarding  houses  has  increased  importance  to  boarding 
house  residents.  The  development  controls  contained  within  this  section  seek  to  minimise 
negative  impacts  on  the  amenity  of  adjoining  neighbours.  They  also  aim  for  improved 
amenity for future occupants through careful building layout and design.      

Objectives 

The broad objectives of this BDCP Part are to:  

O1  Recognise  boarding  house  accommodation  as  an  essential  component  of  residential 

housing for low to moderate income earners.   

O2  Provide guidance to applicants on building requirements and Council regulations in the 

preparation of a Development Application for a boarding house.  

O3   Ensure  that  any  building  that  has  been  developed  or  adapted  into  a  boarding  house 
maintains  a  satisfactory  standard  of  amenity  for  both  the  needs  of  occupants  and 
neighbours alike. 

O4  Maintain  the  residential amenity  of  both  the  property  and  locality,  where  the  boarding 

house development is to be located.  

O5  Ensure the appropriate level of fire safety within all boarding house developments and 

that acceptable levels of service provision are maintained.    

This BDCP section also applies to any Development Application (DA) which seeks to do any 
of the following:  

 
 
 
To convert or adapt existing buildings to become boarding houses  

To substantially alter an existing boarding house premises  

To substantially refurbish/upgrade an existing boarding house.  

232 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Definitions  

The key terms in this DCP section include: 

 
 
 
 
Landscaped area means a part of a residential site used for growing plants, grasses 
and trees, but does not include any building, structure or hard paved area.  

Long term resident is defined as a resident who has used the boarding house as their 
principle place of residence for a period of three months or more consecutive months.  

Short term accommodation is defined as accommodation which is provided for short 
term residents or tourists staying less than three months.  

Temporary means the provision of short term accommodation on a nightly, weekly or 
monthly basis, with a person staying in the premises for not more than two months.  

Relevant Related Legislation  

There is a significant amount of State Government legislation and policy that impacts on the 
establishment and operation of boarding houses, and these should always be referred to in 
conjunction with this DCP section.  

Some of these are:  

           
Local Government Act 1993 
Local Government (Orders) Regulation 1999 
Public Health Act 1991 
Public Health (General Regulation) 2002 
Australian and New Zealand Food Standards Code 
Protection of Environment Operations Act 1997 
Building Code of Australia 
Disability Discrimination Act 1992 
State Environmental Planning Policy (Affordable Rental Housing) 2009  
Boarding Houses Act 2012  
Boarding Houses Regulation 2013  

Building Code of Australia (BCA) 

The  Building  Code  of  Australia  (BCA)  contains  technical  provisions  for  the  design  and 
construction  of  buildings  including  fire  safety,  access  and  structural  stability.  In  addition  to 
requirements in this BDCP section, reference should be made to the BCA and the relevant 
Australian  Standards  (AS)  that  are  contained  in  the  BCA  to  ensure  compliance  with  all 
aspects where necessary.  

The BCA classifies buildings according to the purpose for which they have been designed, 
constructed or intended to be used. To this extent, boarding houses fall under two separate 
classifications under the BCA, namely:  

Class  1b  -  A  boarding  house,  guest  house,  hostel  or  the  like  with  a  total  floor  area  not 
exceeding 300m² and in which not more than 12 persons would ordinarily be resident, which 
is  not  located  above  or  below  another  dwelling  or  another  Class  of  building  other  than  a 
private garage.  

Class  3  -  A  residential  building,  other  than  a  building  of  Class  1  or  2,  which  is  a  common 
place  of  long  term  or  transient  living  for  a  number  of  unrelated  persons,  including  -  a 
boarding house, guest house, hostel, lodgings house or backpackers’ accommodation.  

233 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  distinction  in  classification  between  boarding  houses  is  important  in understanding the 
design  and  safety  implications  and  requirements  under  the  BCA,  as  the  requirements  vary 
for each Class.  

Provisions 

Building Form and Appearance 

P1  Building  form  and  appearance  of  new  boarding  houses  where  viewed  from  public 
streets and adjoining sites are to be compatible with surrounding development. 

P2  Boarding  houses  shall  be  designed  to  reflect  the  predominant  design  features  and 

respect the character of streets on which they are located.  

Design elements include: 

 
 
 
Massing and proportions. 

Roof form and pitch. 

Façade articulation and detailing. 

  Window and door proportions. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Features such as verandahs, eaves and parapets. 

Building materials, patterns, textures and colours. 

Decorative elements. 

Vehicular footpath crossings.  

Fence styles. 

Building setbacks. 

Building height and number of storeys. 

P3  Boarding  houses  that  are  located  within  or  in  the  vicinity  of  a  Heritage  Conservation 
Area  or  Heritage  Item  must  be  designed  sympathetically  to  the  significance  of  the 
heritage property. 

P4   Boarding houses must provide the following facilities within each building: 

 
 
 
Manager/operator  accommodation  (if  the  boarding  house  has  capacity  to 
accommodate 20 or more lodgers). 

Sleeping room or bedrooms (containing sufficient storage area to store clothes, 
linen and personal items for each occupant). 

Laundry facilities. 

  Washing/sanitary facilities. 

 
 
Food  preparation  facilities  in  the  form  of  either  self-contained  facilities  in  each 
room or a communal commercial grade kitchen. 

Garbage storage and recycling facilities. 

P5   A  boarding  house  development  shall  be  designed  as  a  contiguous  building,  within 

which all rooms are contained. Detached boarding houses are not permitted.  

P6   Boarding houses shall be designed so that the main entry point(s) of the building are 
located  to  the  street  fronted  elevation  of  the  building  and  away  from  side  boundary 
areas where adjoining property privacy may be compromised.  

234 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
P7  All parts of the premises and all appurtenances (including furniture, fittings, bedsteads, 
beds  and  bed  linen)  must  be  kept  in  a  clean  and  healthy  condition,  and  free  from 
vermin. 

BASIX 

P8  Boarding  houses  are  to  satisfy  the  requirements  of  the  NSW  Government’s  BASIX 
(https://www.basix.nsw.gov.au/information/index.jsp)  standards  for  reduction  in  water 
and energy usage and provision of thermal comfort.  

Signage 

P9  Only one external sign is permitted for the boarding house development. The sign is 
limited  to  a  maximum  area  of  0.3  sqm  and  its  location  is  to  be  identified  in  the 
application  for  Council’s  consideration.  The  sign  shall  only  provide  the  name  of  the 
boarding house and its address. 

Strata Subdivision 

P10  Boarding  houses  are  to  be  maintained  and  operated  as  a  single  entity.  The  strata 

subdivision of the individual rooms of a boarding house is not be permitted. 

FSR, Height and Frontage Width 

P11  The maximum permissible FSR for boarding houses are those set out in the FSR Map 

of the BLEP 2012. 

P12  The maximum permissible height for boarding houses are those set out in the Height 
of Building Map of the BLEP 2012. Notwithstanding, boarding houses in the R2 zone 
will generally be restricted to two storeys in height to ensure their visual compatibility 
with surrounding low-density residential development. 

P13  A  boarding  house  shall  generally  be  erected  on  an  allotment  of  land  having  a 
minimum  frontage  of  17m  for  a  two  storey  development,  and  being  able  to  provide 
vehicle access and car manoeuvring spaces on site.  

Setbacks 

P14 

(i)  

Front setback provisions for Residential zones: 

Building Component 

Minimum Setback from Street Alignment 

Ground floor 

First floor and above 

Existing predominant building line 

6.0m 

 (ii)   Side and rear setback provisions for Residential zones: 

Building Component 

Minimum Setback from Side and Rear Boundaries 

Ground floor 

First floor 

Second floor and above 

2.0m 

3.5m 

5.0m 

P14A  Notwithstanding  P14,  where  a  side  or  rear  boundary  is  contiguous  with  a  heritage 
item the minimum setback is 5m setback for the building at or above ground level 
and 4m for any underground excavation, irrespective of the setback of the heritage 

235 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
building from its boundary or landscaping of that setback. Fire stairs pump rooms or 
similar structures are not permitted in the setback area. 

Advisory Note:  
Boarding houses within Business zones will be required to comply with the setback controls provided under the 
relevant Area Based Controls for Centres and Corridors in Section 3.   

P15  Balconies,  pergolas,  etc.  are  not  to  encroach  into  the  minimum  setback  area  as  set 

out in P14 above. 

Room Size, Recreational Areas and Washing Facilities 

Bedrooms/Sleeping Rooms 

P16  The size for a sleeping room (excluding any area used for private kitchen or bathroom 

facilities) within a boarding house shall be as follows: 

Room Type 

Minimum Room Size 

Maximum Room Size 

Single person bedroom 

Two person bedroom 

12 sqm  

16 sqm 

25 sqm 

P17  Dormitory style accommodation in boarding houses is not permitted.  

Bedroom Storage 

P18  Each bedroom is to ensure that there are sufficient storage and furnishing provided in 

the room. These requirements are as follows and should be met:  

(a) Secure Storage Facilities 

(b) Minimum Room furnishings 

Minimum  capacity  of  1  sqm  per  person.  Where  more 
than  one  person  is  accommodated  in  the  room,  the 
storage space must be lockable.  
  Bed (including base and mattress). 
  Wardrobe. 
  Mirror. 
  Table and chair. 
  A  night  light  or  other  approved  illumination  device 

for each bed.  
  Waste container. 
  An approved latching device on the door. 
  Curtains, blinds or similar privacy device. 
  All  room  furnishings  shall  be  detailed  in  the 

Management Plan and maintained in good repair.  

Kitchen Facilities 

P19      Notwithstanding  any  provision  of  kitchen  facilities  within  individual  boarding  house 
the  boarding  house 

rooms,  a  communal  kitchen  may  be  provided  within 
development. 

P20      Communal kitchen areas must comply with the following requirements:  

(a) Class 1b Kitchen Facilities 

A communal commercial grade kitchen area with kitchen 
sink and facilities for food preparation, tables and chairs 
in  a  central  location,  accessible  to  all  residents  with  a 
minimum area of 6.5 sqm for one to six residents or 11 
sqm for 7-12 residents 

(b) Class 3 Kitchen  

A commercial grade communal kitchen and dining area 

236 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Kitchen Requirements 

with  a  minimum  area  of  15  sqm,  plus  1  sqm  per 
additional person above the minimum 12 persons. 

The  following  must  be  provided  in  any  kitchen  as  a 
minimum: 
  One sink for every six people with running hot and 

cold water. 

  One stove top cooker for every six people. 
  A  refrigerator  with  storage  space  of  0.13  sqm  per 

person.  

  A  freezer  with  storage  space  of  0.05  sqm  per 

person. 

  Exhaust ventilation. 
  A lockable drawer or cupboard for food storage for 

each guest in the kitchen area.  

P21  Any kitchen facilities and utensils for the storage or preparation of food must be kept 
in a clean and healthy condition, in good repair, free from foul odours and, as far as 
practicable, free from dust, flies, insects and vermin. 

P22  The floor of any kitchen must have an approved impervious surface. 

Communal Living Room  

A  communal  living  room  refers  to  an  indoor  space,  such  as  a  lounge,  games  room  or  TV 
room.    

P23  Boarding houses provide accommodation for people who are unrelated and generally 
strangers. Whilst building design and layout should encourage resident interaction, it 
is  also  important  to  provide  and  maintain  privacy  for  residents.  DAs  for  boarding 
houses are to consider the impact of the development on adjoining properties, where 
both noise disturbance and visual impact should be minimised.  

(a)  Communal Living Room   

(b)  Location of  

Communal Living Room  

Boarding houses are to provide a communal living room 
of a minimum 15 sqm in area for the first 12 persons or 
part  thereof,  with  a  further  1.25  sqm  provided  for  each 
additional person thereafter.  

Where a boarding house only has 4 or less rooms, each 
being  self-contained,  a  communal  living  room  is  not 
required. 

Developments will be required to demonstrate equitable 
and  convenient  access  to  all  boarders  by  spreading 
communal  living  area  across  floors  in  multi-storey 
premises.  

Communal  living  areas  where  located  on  the  ground 
floor  are  to  be  located  near  commonly  used  spaces, 
such  as  kitchen,  laundry,  lobby  entry  area,  manager’s 
office  etc.,  or  adjacent  to  the  communal  outdoor  open 
space.  

Communal living rooms should have a  northerly  aspect 
and  should  be  located  where  they  will  have  a  minimal 
terms  of  noise 
impact  on  adjoining  properties 
generation.  The  use  of  double  glazed  windows  or 
acoustic barriers can assist with this.  

in 

Consideration  should  be  given  to  ensure  that  habitable 
room  also 
the  communal 
rooms  adjoining 
237 

living 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
protected from excessive noise.   

The use of highlight  windows  is encouraged  along side 
boundaries,  to  minimise  direct  overlooking,  particularly 
when adjoining or adjacent to residential properties.  

Laundries, Bathrooms and Drying Facilities: 

P24  Communal laundry facilities must comply with the following requirements:  

(a) Laundry facility requirements 

 (b) Clothes drying areas 

(c) Submission requirements  

(d) Bathroom facilities:  
Class 1(b) – up to 12 residents 

Class 3 

(i)    One  automatic  washing  machine  for  the  first  10 
residents  plus  one  automatic  washing  machine  for 
every  additional  15  residents  thereafter  or  part 
thereof or equivalent and  

(ii)    One  domestic  dryer  for  first  10  residents  plus  one 
domestic  dryer  for  every  additional  20  residents 
thereafter or part thereof or equivalent and 

(ii)  One  large  laundry  tub  with  running  hot  and  cold 
water for up to 10 residents and one additional tub 
for  premises  that  contain  more  than  10  residents 
and 

(iii)  30  metres  of  clothesline  for  every  12  residents  on 

an outdoor area (can be retractable).  

Outside  drying  areas  shall  be  located  in  the  communal 
to  enable  maximum  solar  access. 
courtyard  area 
Internal drying and laundry facilities shall be located in a 
safe and accessible location for all residents. 

All laundry facilities must be nominated on the plans and 
details  of  the  energy  star  rating  of  appliances  must  be 
submitted with the construction certificate.  

Bathroom  facilities  must  comply  with  the  minimum 
requirements  of  the  BCA  and  be  in  an  accessible 
location  for  all  occupants.  The  minimum  requirement  is 
one  bath  or  shower  for  each  10  occupants  or  part 
thereof and one closet pan and washbasin with hot and 
cold  running  water  for  each  10  occupants  or  part 
thereof.  

Bathroom  facilities  must  comply  with  the  minimum 
requirement  as  stipulated  in  the  BCA  and  in  an 
accessible  location  for  all  occupants.  The  minimum 
requirement  is  one  bath  or  shower  and  one  closet  pan 
and washbasin with hot and cold running water for each 
10 occupants or part thereof.  

P25  Communal Bathrooms are to be a minimum of 5 sqm in size. 

P26  Toilet  and  shower  facilities  for  employees  and  persons  with  a  disability  are  to  be 

provided in accordance with the provisions of the BCA.  

P27  Toilet  facilities,  if  for  communal  uses,  must  be  provided  in  a  separate  compartment 

from the bathroom/shower room.  

238 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operational Controls  

Management Plan 

P28  A Management Plan is to be developed and maintained and be accessible to Council 
as requested. The Management Plan shall address the following operational aspects 
of the boarding house: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fees for residency. 

Kitchen usage, the provision of meals or resident provision of meals. 

Use of communal space and facilities. 

Parking for cars. 

Cleanliness and maintenance of the property and grounds. 

House  rules,  e.g.  guest  behaviour,  activities  and  noise,  visitor  policy,  operating 
hours of outdoor common areas, use of alcohol and/or drugs.  

P29  A Management Plan must be submitted with each boarding house DA including new 
and  existing  boarding  houses  to  ensure  that  the  proposed  premises  operates  in  a 
manner that maintains a high level of amenity. 

Management and Registration 

P30  A  management  office  shall  be  visibly  located  within  the  boarding  house  and  be 

accessible to all boarders. 

P31  The boarding house must be registered annually with the Department of Fair Trading.  

P32  Properties located adjacent to the boarding house premise are to be provided  with a 

24 hour telephone number for the property manager/caretaker. 

On-site Manager/Management 

P33  All  new  boarding  houses  are  to  have  a  contact  person  acting  as  an  agent  of  the 

Manager and must be nominated and contactable 24 hours per day, 7 days a week.  

P34  The boarding house agent may be accessible off-site or be one of the occupants who 

resides on the premises.   

P35  A clearly visible sign with the name and telephone number of the contact person must 
be  displayed  externally  at  the  front  entrance  of  the  boarding  house  and  internally  in 
the common area.  

P36  Where on-site managers are provided, they must be over 18 years of age. 

P37  An  on-site  manager/management  must  be 

the  operation, 
administration,  cleanliness  and fire  safety  of  the  premises,  including  compliance  with 
the Management Plan as well as an Emergency Management and Evacuation Plan.  

responsible 

for 

Maximum Number of Boarders and Lodgers 

P38  The  number  of  occupants  must  not  exceed  the  maximum  number  of  persons 
determined by the Council to be accommodated in each bedroom or dormitory and in 
the whole premises. 

239 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bedroom Numbering 

P39  A  schedule  showing  the  numeral  designation  of  each  bedroom  and  the  number  of 
persons  permitted  to  be  accommodated  in  each  bedroom  must  be  conspicuously 
displayed on the premises. 

P40  Each bedroom must be numbered in accordance with the schedule and there must be 
displayed clearly on the  door, or in each bedroom, the maximum number of persons 
allowed to be accommodated in the bedroom. 

Fire Safety and On-Site Security Measures 

Fire Safety Regulation 

P41  Boarding  houses  (Class1b  or  3)  must  provide  a  high  level  of  fire  safety.  Fire 
management practices are to be established to ensure safe and efficient access and 
egress and that all fire equipment and warning systems are regularly checked on an 
annual  basis  (a  fire  safety  statement  is  to  be  supplied  to  Council)  and  maintained  in 
accordance with the provisions of the Local Government Act 1993 and Building Code 
of Australia (BCA).  

P42  A floor plan must be permanently fixed to the inside of the door of each bedroom and 
that  indicates  the  available  emergency  egress  routes  from  the  respective  sleeping 
room.  

P43  Council requires new premises to comply with the provisions of the Building Code of 
Australia  (BCA).  Where  a  DA  proposes  alterations  and  additions  or  upgrade  to  an 
existing premises it will be expected that the whole of the building will be upgraded in 
respect of Fire Safety and will be assessed on its merits.  

Additional Safety Measures  

P44  Additional safety and security measures for all residents may include but are not limited 
to  such  things  as  internal  signage  indicating  the  property  caretaker  or  manager  and 
contact  number,  emergency  contact  numbers  for  essential  services  such  as  fire, 
ambulance,  police,  and  utilities  such  as  gas,  electricity,  plumbing,  installation  of 
perimeter lighting, appropriate fencing and secure gates, and all residents to have own 
keys. 

Acoustic Impact Minimisation 

P45    The following noise abatement provisions should be complied with:  

Design 
considerations 
abatement include consideration of the: 

for 

noise 

 
Location  of  windows  in  respect  to  the 
location  of  windows 
in  neighbouring 
properties. 

 
  Sensitive  location  of  communal  outdoor 
areas  away  from  main  living  area  or 
bedroom  windows  of  any  adjoining 
dwelling. 
The use of screen fencing or planting as 
a noise buffer for external  noise sources 
or  in  terms  of  transferral  of  noise  from 
communal  areas  to  surrounding  land 
uses. 
The  use  of  acoustic  barriers  as  a  noise 
buffer  to  external  noise  sources  from 
surrounding  land  uses  and/or  passive 
design  considerations  within  the  building 
to minimise noise intrusion 

 
240 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  incorporation  of  double  glazing  of 
windows  or  use  of  glass  blocks  (for  light 
penetration  but  not  suitable  where 
natural ventilation is also required) 
Locate  similar  building  uses  (such  as 
bedrooms  to  bathrooms)  back  to  back 
internally  within  the  building,  to  minimise 
internal noise transmission.  

P46  The  development  standards  contained  within  Part  F5  of  the  BCA  regarding  sound 
transmission and insulation ratings and construction that applies to Class 3 buildings 
shall now apply to Class 1B buildings. 

Landscaping and Communal Open Space         

P47 

P48 

Landscaping of the unbuilt upon area is to be provided for the recreational needs of 
residents, to enhance the amenity of the area and streetscape, to provide for privacy 
screening and to make allowance for deep soil planting. 

In  Residential  zones,  the  front  setback  area  must  be  landscaped  to  be  compatible 
with  the  existing  streetscape.  Any  communal  open  space  must  be  provided  behind 
the front building line.  

P49  The following communal open space areas are to be provided: 

(i) 

(ii) 

In Residential zones, one area of at least 20 sqm with a minimum dimension of 
3 metres for the use of the lodgers,  

In  Residential  zones,  if  accommodation  is  provided    on  site  for  a  boarding 
house manager – one area of at least 8 sqm with a minimum dimension of 2.5 
metres adjacent to that accommodation,  

(iii) 

In Business zones, one open-air area of at least 12 sqm, such as a courtyard or 
rooftop  terrace.  Privacy  and  acoustic  screening  should  be  provided  for  any 
elevated courtyard or rooftop terrace.    

P50  Wherever possible communal open space areas should be connected to communal 
indoor spaces such as kitchens or living areas. Communal facilities such as BBQ’s, 
seating and pergolas are also encouraged. 

P51  Planting  should  be  used  to  screen  communal  open  space from  adjoining  properties 
or  the  public  way,  with  trellis,  screens  with  climbing  vines  or  the  like,  used  to 
complement deciduous tree planting. 

Accessibility for People with a Disability 

P52  Access, corridors and facilities are to be designed in accordance with the following: 

 
 
Building Code of Australia – Access and Egress (Part D, E and F) 

Australian Standard 2890.  

P53  There shall be a minimum of accessible / adaptable sole occupancy units provided at 
the rate specified in Part D3.1 General Building Access Requirements of the Building 
Code of Australia (BCA) namely (up to 200 units) 

   
1-10 units - One accessible unit 
11-40 units - Two accessible Units 
41-60 units - Three accessible units 

241 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
61-80 units - Four accessible units 
81-100 units - Five accessible units 
101-200 units - Five accessible units plus one additional unit for every 25 units 
or part thereof in excess of 100 units 

5.5 

Backpackers’ Accommodation   

Backpackers’  accommodation  is  permissible  in  all  the  Business  Zones  under  the  BLEP 
2012,  except  for  the  Neighbourhood  Centre  Zone.  These  zones  are  well-located  for  public 
transport services on which backpackers are likely to rely. 

Backpackers’  accommodation  as  defined  in  the  Standard  Instrument  means  a  building  or 
place that provides: 

 
 
 
Temporary or short term accommodation on a commercial basis, and  

Shared facilities, such as a communal bathroom, kitchen or laundry, and 

Accommodation on a bed or dormitory-style basis (rather than by room) 

The  planning  provisions  aim  to  improve  the  amenity  of  occupants  of  backpackers’ 
accommodation,  and  minimise  negative 
the  amenity  of  neighbouring 
development. The provisions apply to DAs seeking to: 

impacts  on 

 
 
 
Erect or construct a new backpackers’ accommodation  

Convert or adapt existing buildings 

Additions to, refurbish or upgrading of existing backpackers’ accommodation  

Objectives  

The broad objectives of this BDCP Part are to: 

O1  Recognise backpackers’ accommodation as temporary and short term accommodation 

for tourists or visitors.  

O2  Provide guidance to applicants and professionals on building requirements and Council 
regulations  in  the  preparation  of  a  Development  Application  for  backpackers’ 
accommodation. 

O3  Ensure 

that  any  building  providing  backpackers’  accommodation  maintains  a 

satisfactory standard of amenity.   

O4  Ensure the appropriate level of fire safety within all backpackers’ accommodation and 

that an acceptable level of service provision is maintained.  

Definitions  

The key terms in this DCP section include: 

 
 
Short term accommodation is defined as accommodation which is provided for short 
term residents or tourists staying less than three months.  

Temporary means the provision of short term accommodation on a nightly, weekly or 
monthly basis, with a person staying in the premises for not more than two months.  

242 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
Provisions 

Building Density and Height  

P1 

P2  

The maximum permissible FSR for backpackers’ accommodation is that applying to 
the location in the FSR Map under the BLEP 2012. 

The  maximum  permissible  building  height  for  backpackers’  accommodation  is  that 
applying to the location in the Building Height Map under the BLEP 2012. 

Setbacks 

P3 

Provisions  regarding  building  setbacks  for  backpackers’  accommodation  will  be 
assessed on their merits. 

Room Sizes, Recreational Areas and Washing Facilities 

Sleeping Rooms 

P4 

P5 

P6 

P7 

The  number  of  people  accommodated  in  a  room  will  be  determined  by  allocating  a 
minimum of 5.5 sqm of floor area of the room for each person. 

Light  and  ventilation  shall  be  provided  to  sleeping  rooms  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the Building Code of Australia (BCA).  

Each  room  should  contain  adequate  secure  storage  facilities  to  provide  storage 
space for clothes and travel gear. 

Appropriate  floor  coverings  shall  be  used  in  the  rooms  to  minimise  the  impact  of 
noise. 

P8 

Bedding and flooring must be easily cleaned and maintained. 

Kitchen and Dining Areas  

P9 

The  floor  area  of  the  combined  kitchen  and  dining  area  will  be  determined  on  the 
basis of 1 sqm per occupant. 

P10  The  dining  area must  be  able  to  accommodate up  to  50%  of  occupants  at  any  one 

time 

Toilets and Showers 

P11  Toilet  and  shower facilities  within  the  premises  are  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of 

the Building Code of Australia 

P12  Toilet  and  shower  facilities  for  employees  and  persons  with  a  disability  are  to  be 

provided in accordance with the provisions of the BCA. 

P13  The  amount  of  washing  facilities  to  be  provided  are  is  calculated  on  the  following 

figures: 

Facilities 
Bathrooms (shower and or plunge bath) 
Washbasins 
Toilet - up to 10 residents 
Toilets - more than 10 residents 

No of persons 
One per 10 
One per 10 
One  per 10 
One per 20 males 
One per 15 females 

243 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P14  Toilet  facilities  must  be  provided  in  a  separate  compartment  from  the  bathroom  / 

shower room. 

Laundries and Drying Facilities 

P15  A common laundry shall be provided for the use of all residents of the premises. 

P16  Provision shall be made for the placement of an outdoor clothes line. 

Operational Controls 

Management Plan 

P17  A management plan is to be developed and maintained and be accessible to Council 
as  requested. The management  plan  shall  address  the following  operational  aspects 
of the backpackers’ accommodation: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fees for residency. 

Kitchen usage, the provision of meals or resident provision of meals. 

Use of communal space and facilities. 

Parking for cars. 

Cleanliness and maintenance of the property and grounds. 

House  rules,  e.g.  guest  behaviour,  activities  and  noise,  visitor  policy,  operating 
hours of outdoor common areas, use of alcohol and/or drugs.  

P18  An operational Management Plan is to be submitted with each DA for a backpackers’ 
accommodation  (including  new  and  existing  boarding  houses)  to  ensure  that  the 
proposed premises operate in a manner that maintains a high level of amenity. 

Management and Registration 

P19  A management office shall be visibly located within the backpackers’ accommodation 

and be accessible to all boarders. 

P20  The backpackers’ accommodation is to be registered annually with Council. 

P21  Properties  located  adjacent  to  the  backpackers’  accommodation  premise  must  be 
provided with a 24 hour telephone number for the property manager/caretaker. 

On-Site Management 

P22  All new backpackers’ accommodation is to have a contact person acting as an agent 
of the Manager and must be nominated and contactable 24 hours per day, 7 days a 
week.  

P23  The  agent  may  be  accessible  off-site  or  be  one  the  occupants  residing  on  the 

premises.   

P24  A clearly visible sign with the name and telephone number of the contact person must 
be  displayed  externally  at  the  front  entrance  of  the  boarding  house  and  internally  in 
the common area.  

P25  Where on-site managers are provided, they must be over 18 years of age. 

244 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum Number of Residents 

P26  The  number  of  occupants  (not  including  children  under  the  age  of  5  years)  must  not 
exceed the maximum number of persons determined by Council to be accommodated 
in each bedroom or dormitory and in the whole premises. 

Bedroom Numbering 

P27  A  schedule  showing  the  numeral  designation  of  each  bedroom  and  the  number  of 
persons  permitted  to  be  accommodated  in  each  room  must  be  conspicuously 
displayed on the premises. 

P28  Each  bedroom  must  be  numbered  in  accordance  with  the  schedule  and  must  be 
displayed clearly on the door of or in each bedroom the maximum number of persons 
allowed to be accommodated in the bedroom. 

Fire Safety and On-Site Security Measures 

Fire Safety Regulation 

P29  Backpackers’  accommodation  must  provide  a  high 

fire  safety.  Fire 
management practices are to be established to ensure safe and efficient access and 
egress and that all fire equipment and warning systems are regularly checked on an 
annual  basis  (a  fire  safety  statement  is  to  be  supplied  to  Council)  and  maintained  in 
accordance with the provisions of the Local Government Act 1993 and Building Code 
of Australia (BCA).  

level  of 

P30  A floor plan must be permanently fixed to the inside of the door of each sleeping room 
to indicate the available emergency egress routes from the respective sleeping room.  

P31  A Council requires new premises to comply with the provisions of the Building Code of 
Australia  (BCA).  Where  a  DA  proposes  alterations  and  additions  or  upgrade  to  an 
existing  backpacker  premises  it  will  be  expected  the  whole  of  the  building  will  be 
upgraded in respect of Fire Safety and will be assessed on its merits.  

Security Cameras 

P32  All  new  backpackers’  accommodation  must  provide  closed  circuit  television  cameras 
that are installed in all common areas and shall be connected to a central monitoring 
centre within the accommodation. 

Additional Safety Measures  

P33  Additional safety and security measures for all residents may include but are not limited 
to  such  things  as  internal  signage  indicating  the  property  caretaker  or  manager  and 
contact  number,  emergency  contact  numbers  for  essential  services  such  as  fire, 
ambulance,  police,  and  utilities  such  as  gas,  electricity,  plumbing,  installation  of 
permitter  lighting,  appropriate  fencing  and  secure  gates,  all  residents  to  have  own 
keys. 

Acoustic Impact Minimisation 

P34  The following noise abatement provisions should be complied with:  

considerations 
Design 
abatement include consideration of the: 

for 

noise 

  Location  of  windows  in  respect  to  the 
in  neighbouring 

location  of  windows 
properties. 

  Sensitive  location  of  communal  outdoor 
areas  away  from  main  living  area  or 

245 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bedroom  windows  of  any  adjoining 
dwelling. 

terms  of 

transferral  of  noise 

  The use of screen fencing or planting as a 
noise  buffer  for  external  noise  sources  or 
in 
from 
communal areas to surrounding land uses. 
  The  use  of  acoustic  barriers  as  a  noise 
buffer  to  external  noise  sources  from 
surrounding 
land  uses  and/or  passive 
design  considerations  within  the  building 
to minimise noise intrusion 

  The  incorporation  of  double  glazing  of 
windows  or  use  of  glass  blocks  (for  light 
penetration  but  not  suitable  where  natural 
ventilation is also required) 

  Locate  similar  building  uses  (such  as 
bedrooms  to  bathrooms)  back  to  back 
internally  within  the  building,  to  minimise 
internal noise transmission.  

5.5A 

Serviced Apartments   

Serviced  apartments  are  defined  in  the  BLEP  2012  as  a  building  (or  part  of  a  building) 
providing  self–contained  accommodation  to  tourists  or  visitors  on  a  commercial  basis  and 
that is regularly serviced or cleaned by the owner or manager of the building or part of the 
building or the owner or manager’s agent. This part of the BDCP provides detailed controls 
to guide development of serviced apartments for short term stay purposes.    

Serviced  apartments  play  a  significant  and  growing  role  in  the  tourist  and  visitor 
accommodation  market  and  may  become  a  more  common  form  of  development  in  the 
Burwood  LGA  as  the  BLEP  2012  permits  them  in  all  business  zones  except  the  B1 
Neighbourhood Centre zone, and in the R1 General Residential zone.  

Serviced apartments in compliance with the definition are not residential flat buildings. Strata 
subdivision  of  the  units  in  a  serviced  apartment  development  may  be  inconsistent  with  the 
definition  of  serviced  apartments  and  is  not  permitted  by  Council  unless  certain  conditions 
apply.  

Given  the  requirements  of  the  definition,  serviced  apartments  are  to  operate  on  a 
commercial basis and entail regular servicing and cleaning. They should be furnished and a 
maximum letting period of three months should apply.  

Applications for serviced apartments therefore must be accompanied by a Management Plan 
that confirms these arrangements in compliance with the definition.  

Objectives 

The broad objectives of this BDCP Part are to:  

O1  Recognise  serviced  apartments  as  temporary  and  short  term  accommodation  for 

tourists or visitors.  

O2  Provide guidance to applicants and professionals on building requirements and Council 

regulations in the preparation of a Development Application for serviced apartments. 

O3  Ensure  that  any  building  providing  serviced  apartments  maintains  a  satisfactory 

standard of amenity.   

O4  Ensure  the  appropriate  level  of  fire  safety  within  all  serviced  apartments  and  that  an 

acceptable level of service provision is maintained.  

246 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provisions 

Operation and Management  

P1 

P2 

The serviced apartments in an approved serviced apartments development are to be 
maintained and operated as a single entity.  

An  operational  Management  Plan  is  to  be  submitted  with  each  DA  for  a  serviced 
apartment development to ensure that the proposed premises operate in a manner 
consistent with the definition of serviced apartments. 

P3 

The Management Plan must provide satisfactory details on the following matters: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Provision  of  a  manager  or  an  agent  of  the  manager  within  the  serviced 
apartment  premises,  the  hours  of  the  manager’s  availability  and  contact 
details 24 hours per day, 7 days a week. 

Details of the Emergency Management and Evacuation Plan for the premises 

The  on-site  management 
for  operation,  administration, 
cleanliness  and  fire  safety  of  the  premises  including  compliance  with  the 
Management Plan and Emergency Management and Evacuation Plan 

is  responsible 

Provision of a “front desk” where keys are made available to clients and that 
also deals with other relevant matters such as the provision of information on 
the use of common areas and facilities, car parking and house rules. 

Details of the regular servicing and cleaning of the serviced apartments, and 
details of the permanent furnishing of the apartments. 

Details of the letting arrangements, with a provision to be included that limits 
the stay of tenant(s) to a maximum of three months. 

P4 

P5 

A  clearly  visible  sign  with  the  name  and  telephone  number  of  the  on-site  manager 
must be displayed externally at the front entrance of the serviced apartments. 

Consents  issued  for  serviced  apartments  developments  will  be  conditioned  to  the 
effect that the maximum length of stay of a client is not to exceed three months to 
ensure that developments comply with the relevant definitions in the BLEP 2012. 

P6 

All serviced apartments must be furnished prior to occupation. 

Strata Ownership 

P7 

P8 

P9 

Strata  subdivision  may  be  approved  where  all  of  the  units  in  a  development  are  a 
group  in  a  strata  plan.  Parking  for  the  serviced  apartments  also  must  be  grouped 
together with the serviced apartment units in the strata plan.  

Strata  subdivision  of  individual  serviced  apartment  units  or  groups  of  units  may  be 
permitted  only  where  a  covenant  in  Council’s  favour  is  placed  on  strata  title  in 
accordance with Section 88E of the Conveyancing Act 1919 restricting the use of the 
premises  to  tourist  and  visitor  accommodation  for  the  purposes  of  providing 
temporary and short term accommodation of no more than three months duration. 

In both cases the by laws of the final strata plan are to include a provision requiring 
the  ongoing  management  of  the  lots  in  the  strata  plan  that  comprise  the  serviced 
apartments complex as a joint entity. 

247 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6 

Signage and Advertising  

5.6.1  

Introduction 

Signage  and  advertising  has  become  a  major  visual  element  in  the  contemporary  urban 
environment.  Signage  is  located  mainly  in  commercial,  business  and  retail  areas.  In  the 
Burwood  LGA,  these  include  the  Enterprise  Corridor  zone  along  Parramatta  Road,  the 
Burwood  and  Strathfield  Town  Centres,  the  Enfield  and  Croydon  Park  Local  Centres,  the 
Neighbourhood  Centres  mainly  in  The  Strand,  Croydon  and  the  Light  Industrial  zone  in 
Enfield.  In  residential  zones,  only  limited  types  of  signage  are  permitted  that  identify 
buildings or are associated with permitted businesses. 

Signage needs to be managed to ensure that it does not detract from the scenic quality of 
the urban environment. There needs to be an appropriate relationship between signage and 
other  development  on  land.  The  buildings  in  an  area,  and  their  context,  should  be  the 
predominant feature, not signage.  
Definitions 

The BLEP 2012 adopts the Standard Instrument definitions for signage (the group term) and 
the sub terms of advertising structure, building identification sign and business identification 
sign. Advertisement is also defined. An explanation of each type is provided below: 

Signage.  This  is  the  group  term.  It  means  any  sign,  notice,  device,  representation  or 
advertisement that advertises or promotes any goods, services or events and any structure 
or  vessel  that  is  principally  designed  for,  or  that  is  used  for,  the  display  of  signage,  and 
includes any of the following:  

(a)  

(b)  

(c)  

an advertising structure 

a building identification sign 

a business identification sign 

but does not include a traffic sign or traffic control facilities. 

Advertising  Structure.  This  is  a  type  of  signage.  It  means  any  structure  that  is  used 
principally for the display of an advertisement. A structure is something built or constructed, 
e.g. of parts, arranged in a certain way. An Advertisement means a sign, notice, device or 
representation  in  the  nature  of  an  advertisement  visible  from  any  public  place  or  public 
reserve or from any navigable water. 

Building identification sign. This is also a type of signage. It means a sign that identifies or 
names a building and that may include the name of a building, the street name and number 
of  a  building,  and  a  logo  or  other  symbol  but  does  not  include  general  advertising  of 
products, goods or services. 

Business identification sign. This is also a type of signage. It means a sign: 

(a) 

that indicates: 

(i) 

(ii) 

the name of the person or business, and 

the nature of the business carried on by the person at the premises or place 
at which the sign is displayed, and 

(b) 

that may include the address of the premises or place and a logo or other symbol that 
identifies the business, but that does not contain any advertising relating to a person 
who does not carry on business at the premises or place. 

248 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Permissibility 

In the Land Use Table of the BLEP 2012, all types of signage are permitted with consent in 
all of the Business zones (B1, B2, B4 and B6) and the Light Industrial zone (IN2). Building 
identification  signs  and  business  identification  signs  are  permitted  with  consent  in  all  the 
BLEP 2012 zones, including the Residential zone, but excluding the SP2 Infrastructure zone.  

Exempt Development 

Specific categories of signage and advertising may not require development consent subject 
to  satisfying  the  specified  criteria.  This  form  of  development  is  referred  to  as  Exempt 
Development. 

Council’s Exempt Development provisions are set out in Clause 3.1 and Schedule 2 of the 
BLEP 2012. The following categories of signage and advertising are included in Schedule 2: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Business identification signs. 

Real estate signs (advertising premises/land for sale or rent).  

Existing under-awning signs. 

Non-illuminated signs behind glass frontage of shops.  

Temporary signs.  

Top hamper signs (non-illuminated).  

The  State  Government’s  Exempt  Development  provisions  are  provided  within  State 
Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008. Division 
2 Advertising and Signage Exempt Development Code provides the requirements for: 

 
Building identification signs. 

  Wall signs. 

 
 
 
Fascia signs. 

Under awning signs. 

Top hamper signs. 

  Window signs. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Replacement of identification signs. 

Internal signs. 

Community notice and public information signs. 

Temporary event signs. 

Real estate signs. 

Election signs. 

State Environmental Planning Policy No. 64 – Advertising and Signage  

SEPP  No.  64  is  a  State  Government  policy  which  seeks  to  ensure  that  advertising  and 
signage  is  compatible  with  the  desired  amenity  and  visual  character  of  an  area,  provides 
effective  communication  in  suitable  locations,  and  is  of  high  quality  design  and  finish.  The 
SEPP  is  of  particular  relevance  to  large  scale  outdoor  advertising.  Council  cannot  grant 
development  consent  to  any  applicable  signage  proposal  unless  it  is  satisfied  that  the 
proposal is consistent with the provisions of SEPP 64 and the Assessment Criteria contained 
therein.  

249 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives 

The  purpose  of  this  DCP  section  is  to  provide  additional  detailed  controls  on  signage  that 
constitutes development permitted with consent. 

The objectives are:  

O1 

O2 

O3 

O4 

O5 

O6 

O7 

O8 

To ensure that signage enhances the visual presentation, character and heritage of 
the locality.  

To  ensure  that  signage  complements  the  building  to  which  it  is  attached  and  the 
surroundings.  

To prevent excessive signage and visual clutter.  

To facilitate effective and visually interesting advertising of goods and services.  

To  ensure  that  signage  does  not  adversely  affect  the  safety  of  motorists  and 
pedestrians.  

To ensure signage is of a high quality design and finish.  

To ensure that signs do not affect the amenity of residents, occupiers etc by way of 
excessive shadow and night illumination.  

To ensure that signage is consistent with community ethics and values.  

Submission Requirements 

Development Applications for signage and advertising must include:  

 
 
 
 
Statement of Environmental Effects outlining how the requirements of this policy have 
been addressed.  

Scale  drawings  of  the  proposed  signage  including  a  site  plan  and  elevations,  which 
specify  the  materials,  colours  and  content  (i.e.  wording  and  graphics)  of  the  sign,  as 
well as the size and shape of the sign, and details of any reflectivity or lighting of the 
sign. 
In  some  cases,  Council  may  require  perspective  drawings  and/or  a 
photomontage.  Coloured  photographs  and/or  drawings  may  be  submitted  with  a 
signage application, but only in addition to scale plans and elevations.  

The  construction  details  of  the  sign  including  means  of  attachment  to  the  building, 
structural support or fixing. 

Details of any existing signs on the building and adjacent buildings which are proposed 
to be retained. 

5.6.2   Specific Provisions by Signage Type  

A-Frame Sign 

A sign comprising a signboard or sandwich board displayed on a public footpath.   

P1 

P2 

P3 

P4 

The sign shall be licensed by Council if occupying a public footpath or public space. 
In  such  a  case,  the  signage  will  only  be  permitted  to  be  located  on  the  footpath 
immediately forward of the premises to which the license has been issued. 

The  sign  must  be  a  free-standing  A-frame  with  maximum  dimensions  of  0.9m  high 
and 0.6m wide with no protrusions or sharp corners, and stable. 

The owner must carry public liability insurance of at least 20 million.  

There must be a minimum of 2m clearance to any other fixed objects on the footpath 
such as poles, litter bins, seats etc, with a 600mm setback from the face of the kerb.  

250 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P5 

The business and proprietor’s name is to be clearly identified on the sign.   

Fascia Sign  

A sign attached to the fascia or return of an awning. 

P6 

P7 

The  sign  does  not  project  above  or  below  the fascia  or  return  end  of  the  awning  to 
which it is attached.  

The  sign  does  not  extend  more  than  300mm  from  the  fascia  or  return  end  of  the 
awning.  

Flush Wall Sign  

A sign attached to, or painted on, the wall of a building (other than the transom of a doorway 
or display window) and not projecting more than 300mm from the wall. 

P8 

P9 

There shall be only one sign per building facade for each occupancy of the premises. 

The sign is not to occupy more than 20% of the area of the wall. 

P10  The sign shall not project above or beyond the wall to which it is attached. 

Pole or Pylon Sign 

A sign erected on a pole or pylon independent of any building or other structure. 

P11  The sign shall have a maximum area of 8 sqm, maximum height of 5m above natural 

ground level except where special circumstances exist.  

P12  The sign shall have a minimum height above ground level of 2.6m where there would 

be pedestrian movement beneath.  

P13  Where  more  than  one  pole  or  pylon  sign  is  provided,  each  should  have  the  same 

setback and be of uniform design and spacing.  

P14  The sign should not obscure or detract from any landscaped area provided.  

Projecting Wall Sign  

A  sign  attached  to  the  wall  of  a  building  (other  than  the  transom  of  a  doorway  or  display 
window) and projecting horizontally more than 300mm. 

P15  The sign shall not exceed 1.5m in height and 0.5m in width/projection.  

P16  The sign shall be erected at right angles to the building.  

P17  The  sign  shall  be  erected  horizontal  to  the  ground  and  provide  at  least  2.6m 

clearance from the ground.  

School Sign  

A sign located within the boundaries of an educational establishment. 

P18  The sign shall not be greater than 4 sqm in area.  

P19  The sign shall not be more than 3m in height from ground level to the top of the sign. 

P20  There shall not be more than three signs per premises or establishment.  

251 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Top Hamper Sign  

A sign attached to the transom of a doorway or display window of a building. 

P21  The sign is not to extend more than 200mm beyond any building alignment.  

P22  The  sign  is  not  to  extend  below  the  head  of  the  doorway  or  window  to  which  it  is 

attached.  

Under Awning Sign  

A sign attached to the underside of an awning (other than the fascia or return end). 

P23  The sign is not to exceed 2.5m in length and 0.7m between the underside of the sign 

and the underside of the awning.    

P24  The sign is to be erected at right angles to the building.  

P25  The sign is to be erected horizontal to the ground and provide a clearance of at least 

2.6m from the ground.  

P26  The sign is not to project beyond the awning.  

P27  The sign is to be securely fixed by metal supports and fixings.  

P28  The sign shall be not closer than 3m from any other under-awning sign.  

P29  The sign shall be not closer than 600mm to the kerb. 

P30  The sign may be internally illuminated.  

Window Sign  

A sign attached to, or displayed on, the window to a shop, office or business premises. 

P31  The sign shall not cover more than 50% of the window area in the interests of safety, 

surveillance and visual amenity. 

Signage Panel  

Any advertising structure, other than those described below, including a hoarding or bulletin 
board. 

P32  The sign shall have a maximum area of 12 sqm.  

P33  There shall be only one sign per building facade.  

P34  The sign shall not extend laterally beyond the wall.  

P35  The sign shall not project above the top of a wall.  

P36  The sign should not obscure or cover any window or architectural feature. 

P37  The internal illumination of large panel signs is generally discouraged as such signs 
contribute to visual clutter and conflict with street lighting and traffic signals.  

252 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Real Estate Sign  

A sign which contains a notice that the place or premises is for sale or letting together with 
particulars of the sale or letting. 

P38  A  real  estate  sign  in  respect  of  residential  premises  relating  to  a  letting,  sale  by 

private treaty or sale by auction, shall not exceed 2.5 sqm in area. 

P39  A  real  estate  sign  in  respect  of  commercial  or  industrial  premises,  shall  not  exceed 

3.5 sqm in area. 

P40  The sign shall not be displayed for more than seven days after the commencement of 
the letting or completion of the sale of the premises or place to which the sign relates 
and shall not be displayed for not more than 40 days in total.  

Temporary Sign  

A  sign  of  a  temporary  nature  which  announces  any  local  event  of  a  religious,  educational, 
cultural, social or recreational character or relates to any temporary matter in connection with 
such an event. 

P41  The sign does not include advertising of a commercial nature (except for the name of 

an event’s sponsor).  

P42  The sign is not a fly poster or an A-frame sign on a public footpath. 

P43  The sign is not displayed earlier than 28 days before the day on which the event is to 

take place and is removed within seven days after the event.  

5.6.3 

 Signage in All Areas  

This  section  applies  to  all  signage  in  all  areas  and  the  provisions  are  in  addition  to  the 
particular controls contained within other parts of the BDCP.  

Inappropriate Signage Types and Maintenance Provisions 

P1 

Council generally does not support the following types of signage:  

        
 
 
Roof signs.  
Above awning signs.  
Signage on awning extensions. 
Signage on window blinds or shutters.  
Fly or bill posters on public property.  
Large advertising balloons.  
Flashing, moving or running signs.  
Advertising  on  parked  vehicles,  trailers,  shipping  containers,  whether  or  not 
registered, where the principal purpose is for advertising. If a vehicle, trailer or 
shipping container has multiple purposes, the primary purpose will be deemed 
as  advertising  if  the  vehicle,  trailer  or  shipping  container  is  parked  on  a  road 
continuously for a period exceeding 7 days. 
Corporate colour schemes, comprising the painting of all, or large parts, of the 
building’s exterior, as such schemes generally obscure architectural features of 
the building. 
Signage with multiple contrasting colours or rainbow colours. 

P2 

Signage should be of limited contrasting colours and proportional to the building and 
awning. 

253 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signage  text  should  be  of  limited  contrasting  colours 
and proportional to the building and the awning. 

Signs  with  multiple  contrasting  colours  or  rainbow  colours  are 
discouraged. 

Signs  with  multiple  contrasting  colours, 
text  not 
proportional  to  the  building  and  permanent  above 
awning signs are not permitted. 

P3 

P4 

P5 

New  signage  schemes  should  be  taken  as  an  opportunity  to  remove  or  replace 
earlier inappropriate signage types. In all cases, new signage will be considered on 
the basis of its cumulative impact upon the visual presentation of a building, having 
regard to any existing signage which is proposed to be retained. 

Council  discourages  signage  prone  to  deterioration  in  appearance  and  may  order 
removal of redundant, unsightly, dilapidated or objectionable signage.  

Council may require a provision for maintenance of signage and discourages signage 
on common boundaries where maintenance difficulties could occur.  

Traffic and Pedestrian Safety  

P6 

P7 

Council  discourages  signage  that  could  cause  distraction  to  motorists  in  close 
proximity to traffic lights, pedestrian crossings, etc. Signage that uses digital and LED 
technology also falls within this category. Moving, flashing or running light signage is 
not permitted.  

Signs facing roads with high traffic volumes, traffic lights or major intersections may 
be  referred  to  the  NSW  Roads  and  Maritime  Services  (RMS)  for  comment. 
Advertising signs greater than 20 sqm in area and within 250 metres of a classified 
road will be referred to the RMS for concurrence prior to a decision being made.  

Illumination and Electrical Wiring  

P8 

The glare and/or light spillage from illuminated signage shall not cause a nuisance to 
adjoining and surrounding residents.  

254 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P9 

Electrical wiring to illuminated signage or spotlights is to be concealed in the interests 
of safety and visual appearance.  

Signage Content  

P10  The content of signage is to generally relate to goods and services available on the 

premises.  

P11 

Large  scale  advertising  (i.e.  other  than  a  building/business  identification  sign)  on 
classified  roads  such  as  Parramatta  Road  and  Liverpool  Road  contrary  to  this 
requirement will be considered on its merits, and may also be subject to SEPP No. 
64.  

English and Foreign Language Text 

P12  Written  text  upon  signage  is  to  be  predominately  in  English.  Foreign  language  text  
may  be  permitted  where  an  English  translation  is  provided,  and  where  the  foreign 
language text is provided in smaller lettering or characters.  

Signs on Council Property  

P13 

In  considering  applications  for  signage  in  association  with  public  facilities  (such  as 
seating, telephone booths, waste bins or bus shelters), attention will be given to the 
appropriate placement of such signs. The specific location, design and maintenance 
requirements  should  form  part  of  a  formal  agreement,  and  the  signage  would  be 
subject to a Development Application.  

Signage Design Approach 

P14  Signage  for  large  commercial  developments  and  those  that  contain  multiple 
tenancies  should  be  the  subject  of  a  coordinated  signage  scheme  as  part  of  the 
overall development.  

P15  Signage  for  new  developments  should  be  incorporated  in  the  architecture  of  the 

building or site and approved as part of the initial development approval.  

P16  The proportions of signs should relate to major architectural elements of the building, 

including window heads, sills, etc.  

5.6.4 

 Additional Signage Controls by Zone Type  

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

To provide criteria for the management of signage in relevant zones. 

To minimise the impact of signage on residential uses in the vicinity.  

Provisions  

Signage in a Residential Zone and Associated with a Home Occupation, Home Business or 
Home Industry  

P1 

P2 

A business identification sign must be associated with a permitted home occupation, 
home business or home industry.  

A  maximum  of  one  business  identification  sign  or  building  identification  sign  is 
permitted per dwelling house.  

255 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P3 

A business identification sign or building identification sign for a dwelling house is to 
be located wholly within the property. 

P7 

Signage associated with dwelling houses is not to exceed 0.3 sqm in area. 

P4 

P5 

P6 

P7 

Flush  wall  signs  affixed  to  the  dwelling  house  are  generally  preferred.  In  special 
circumstances, consideration may be given to a sign on the fence fronting a street, or 
a free standing sign within the yard having a maximum height of 1.5 metres.  

Such  signs  should  be  located  unobtrusively,  so  as  to  appear  an  integral  part  of  the 
building or landscaping. 

Generally, illuminated signs are not permitted. Standard “light boxes” or “cubes” are 
permitted to identify health care professionals located in health consulting rooms.  

Signage  will  generally  not  be  permitted  in  respect  to  a  home  occupation,  home 
business  or  home  industry  operating  from  a  residential  flat  building,  multi  dwelling 
housing  or  shop  top  housing  development  as  there  is  greater  potential  for  visual 
clutter on account of the number of occupancies upon one site. 

Signage in a Residential Zone and Associated with a Commercial Use  

P1 

P2 

P3 

P4 

P5 

A  maximum  of  two  signs,  being  building  identification  sign  and/or  business 
identification signs per development are permitted.  

The sign is to be located wholly within the property, and should appear as an integral 
part of the building or landscaping. 

Signage types in Residential zones will generally be limited to the following:  

 
 
 
 
Under awning sign.  

Fascia sign.  

Flush wall sign.  

Top hamper sign.  

  Window sign.  

Illuminated signs are permitted provided these do not adversely impact on residential 
land uses in the vicinity.  

Signs for non-residential activities may be required to comply with other requirements 
of this DCP section. 

Signage in the B4 Mixed Use Zone (Burwood Town Centre and Strathfield Town Centre) and 
in the B1 Neighbourhood Centre Zone 

P1 

Signs above awning level (or 2.5m where there is no awning) will not be permitted.  

Signs  in  the  B2  Local  Centre  Zone  (Enfield  East  and  West,  and  Georges  River  Road 
Croydon Park), in the B6 Enterprise Corridor Zone (Parramatta Road) and in the IN2 Light 
Industrial Zone 

P1  Where a building is located on the street alignment, there shall be no more than three 
signs  per  frontage  to  the  ground  level  façade,  and  no  more  than  one  sign  per 
frontage to the upper level façade. 

P2  Where  a  building  is  setback from  the  street  alignment,  there  shall  be  no  more  than 

three signs per frontage. 

256 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6.5 

 Signs on, or in the Vicinity of, Heritage Properties  

The  provisions  of  the  BLEP  2012  should  be  consulted  for  provisions  relating  to  heritage 
properties.  

Buildings or sites may be listed as heritage items either individually or as part of a group or a 
conservation  area.  There  are  a  number  of  heritage  items  and  heritage  conservation  areas 
within the Burwood LGA recognised by the community as having heritage significance. Any 
development, including signage, should preserve and enhance the character of these areas.  

In  general,  signage  other  than  exempt  development,  business  identification  signs  and 
building identification signage is prohibited in heritage items and conservation areas.  

Provisions 

P1 

Signage should never dominate the architectural features of the building. Advertising 
should  preferably  be  placed  in  locations  on  the  building  or  item,  which  would 
traditionally  have  been  used  as  advertising  areas.  Opportunities  for  advertising 
therefore, may be somewhat limited.  

Traditional Signage Opportunities  

P2 

Generally,  sign  panels  can  be  determined  by  dividing  a  building  into  a  grid  and 
identifying locations on:  

 
 
 
 
 
 
A solid parapet above a cornice. 

The horizontal panel below a cornice.  

Verandah or awning fascia.  

Notice boards or plaques on ground floor piers/beside entrance doors.  

Small signs on individual architectural elements such as rendered blocks. 

Side walls/party walls able to be viewed above adjacent buildings.  

Figure 39: Traditional Signage 

257 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Opportunities for Modern Signage  

P3 

Modern signs can, at times, also be accommodated as follows:  

 
Under awning signs.  

  Window signs. 

 
Low level sign (below ground floor window sill level).  

Guidelines  

P4 

The following additional matters should be taken into consideration in heritage areas:  

(a)  As  the  external  colours  applied  in  different  historical  periods  varied  and  were 
more  limited  in  range  than  those  available  today,  it  is  wise  to  research 
appropriate  colour  ranges  for  buildings  in  heritage  areas.  Generally,  however, 
the  following  muted  colours  are  suggested  dark  green,  maroon,  brown, 
terracotta,  charcoal,  etc.  highlighted  with  creams,  pinks,  ochres  and  earth 
tones.  

(b)   Heritage  lettering  styles  may  involve  shaded  letters,  the  mixing  of  styles  and 

letters and ornamental scrolls as relevant to the period of the building. 

Advisory Note:  
These controls are in addition to the provisions under the heritage sections. 

5.7  

Sex Services Premises  

Introduction 

The  BLEP  2012  defines  sex  services  premises  as  meaning  a  brothel,  and  sex  services  as 
sexual acts or services in exchange for payment. 

Sex  services  premises  are  permitted  with  Council’s  consent  in  the  B6  Enterprise  corridor 
zone  in  the  BLEP  2012.  The  land  use  is  not  permitted  in  any  other  zone  in  the  Burwood 
LGA. 

Where  a  Development Application  if made for  sex  services  premises,  the  provisions  of the 
BLEP  2012  require  Council  to  consider  the  impact  on  specific  adjoining  land  uses  and  in 
particular on any place likely to be regularly frequented by children. 

Council will only consider applications for sex services premises where they comply with the 
BLEP  2012,  the  additional  requirements  of  this  DCP  section,  and  after  considering  the 
circumstances of the case, including any public submissions received. 

Advisory Note: 
Home occupation (sex services), where sex services are provided in a dwelling by no more than two permanent 
residents, is a separate definition in the BLEP 2012. This land use is prohibited in all zones in the Burwood LGA. 

Objectives  

O1  To  provide  more  certainty  in  the  development  assessment  process  and  assist  the 
community  and  applicants  to  understand  Council’s  requirements  relating  to  sex 
services premises. 

O2  To  specify  additional  planning  requirements  that  will  be  used  by  Council  to 
appropriately  regulate  and  control  sex  services  premises  so  that  they  do  not  cause 
offence in the wider community or result in adverse environment impacts. 

258 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
O3  To  ensure  that  sex  services  premises  are  operated  in  accordance  with  acceptable 

health and building standards.  

Submitting a Development Application  

Because  of  the  often  contentious  impacts  of  sex  services  premises,  the  following  steps 
should be followed when submitting a Development Application. 

1.  Discussion should be held with officers of Council’s Building and Development section 
about  the  application  before  submitting  it  and  consideration  given  to  any  suggestions 
made by Council staff. 

2. 

All  applications  for  premises  to  be  used  as  a  brothel,  including  change  of  use  of  an 
existing building to sex services premise, are to include the following documentation: 

 
 
 
Location  plan  drawn  to  scale  showing  the  proximity  of  the  subject  site  to  any 
residential property, place of public worship, child care centre, community facility, 
hospital,  school,  park,  or  any  other  place  regularly  frequented  by  children 
(includes  any  such  uses  in  adjoining  Local  Government  Areas).  The  windows 
and  doors  of  these  land  uses  in  relation  to  the  proposed  brothel  must  be 
indicated. The location plan should also show any other sex services premises or 
licensed premises in the vicinity. 

A  floor(s)  layout  plan  drawn  to  scale  showing  room  layout  and  dimensions, 
partitioning, location of windows and doors including all entrances and exits from 
the building. Any proposed internal or external alterations to the premises are to 
be  clearly  indicated  on  the  plan.  The  proposed  use  of  each  room  is  to  be 
nominated to specifically identify all rooms proposed to be used for the conduct 
of acts of prostitution. 

A site plan indicating on-site parking, means of pedestrian access, and details of 
external lighting. 

An Statement of Environmental Effects which provides: 

 
 
details  of  existing  uses  on  adjoining  properties  and  any  other  uses  established 
on the subject property. 

comprehensive description of the proposed development, anticipated impact and 
measures to ameliorate those impacts. 

A Management Plan which provides: 

 
 
 
 
details about the operating business, including names and contact numbers. 
procedure for dealing with complaints about operational matters. 

operational  details  including  number  of  staff,  hours  and  days  of  operation, 
including maximum number of staff on site at any one time. 

proposed security measures including handling of money. 

proposed  health  management  procedures 
management. 

including  cleaning  and  waste 

Notification of Applications  

All  applications  for  sex  services  premises  will  be  notified  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements of this DCP as specified in Part 7. 

Applications for sex services premises also will be referred to the NSW Police for comment 
prior to determination. 

259 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provisions 

Location 

P1  Sex services premises must not breach the following minimum distances (measured to 

the entrance to the premises used by clients):  

 
 
 
Within  200m  walking  distance  of  any  school,  child  care  centre,  community 
facility,  or  place  of  public  worship  located  within  the  Burwood  LGA  or  an 
adjoining LGA.  

Within  a  50m  radius  (measured  from  the  property  boundary)  of  any  other  Sex 
service  premises  or  Restricted  premises,  regardless  of  whether  it  is  located 
within the Burwood LGA or an adjoining LGA. 

Within 100m radius of any pub or hotel.  

P2  The  operation  of  a  brothel  inside  the  sex  services  premises  must  not  be  visible  from 
any lawful land use located within an adjoining residential zone whether located within 
the Burwood LGA or an adjoining LGA:  

P3  Sex  services  premises  should  be  located  where  access  is  provided  from  Parramatta 

Road. Access via side streets is not acceptable.  

Layout of Premises  

P1  Premises must be designed so that there is only one visible entrance to the premises. 
As stated above, it must be from the Parramatta Road frontage of the property. 

P2  The entrance must be illuminated and access to the premises provided so that people 

visiting the brothel do not have to wait on the footpath. A waiting room or area within 
the premises should be provided for this purpose if necessary. 

Parking and Access  

P1  Parking for sex services premises is to be provided in accordance with Section 5.7. 

P2  Parking areas are to be well lit and sign-posted. 

P3 

If parking (as required by this DCP) for the premises is proposed to be provided in the 
rear  of  a  property,  including  via  access  from  a  rear  lane,  the  application  must 
demonstrate adequate and safe access to the Parramatta Road pedestrian entry of the 
premises  without  any  impact  on  adjoining  land  uses,  in  particular  those  in  residential 
zones. 

Hours of Operation  

P1 

No  specific  standards  are  proposed  in  relation  to  the  hours  of  operation.  However, 
Council  will  exercise  its  discretion  in  relation  to  permitted  hours  of  operation  of  sex 
services  premises  in  the  circumstances  of  the  case  taking  into  consideration  the 
nature of adjoining land uses, hours of operation/use of those premises and possible 
conflicts with such uses. 

Scale of Operation  

P1 

Council will consider the appropriateness of the proposed scale of operation relative 
to the location of the premises, the size of the land parcel and the nature and scale of 
any likely impacts on surrounding development. Generally, the floor area of the sex 
services premises is not to exceed 200 sq. 

260 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Noise  

P1  The use of the sex services premises shall not give rise to: 

 
 
 
Transmission of vibration to any place of different occupancy, or 

A  sound  level  at  any  point  on  the  boundary  of  a  site  any  greater  than  the 
background 
in  Australian  Standard  1055,  “Acoustic  – 
Description and Measurement of Environmental Noise”, or 

levels  specified 

An “offensive noise” as defined in the Protection of the Environment Operations 
Act, 1997. 

Signage  

P1  Council  aims  to  ensure  that  advertising  of  premises  is  discreet  and  does  not  cause 

offence to the general public and the following requirements apply: 

 
 
 
 
Only one discreetly located external sign will be permitted on premises having a 
maximum  area  of  0.5  sqm.  Wording  must  be  limited  to  the  name  of  the 
business  operated  and  the  address.  Signs  may  not  display  words  or  images 
that  Council  considers  to  be  sexually  explicit,  provocative,  or  otherwise 
offensive. 

A clearly identifiable street number must be displayed. 

Signs may be externally lit by spotlights only. Internally illuminated signs are not 
permitted. 

No “chain” bulb or “flashing sign” type lighting is permitted. 

Advisory Note: 
Advertising premises specifically for the purposes of prostitution is an offence under the Summary Offences Act 
1988. 

Health Requirements  

P1 

Council aims to: 

 
 
 
 
 
Encourage sex services premises to operate in a manner which will not assist in 
the spreading of communicable diseases. 

Promote the education of sex industry workers and their clients to minimise the 
risk of contracting sexually transmitted diseases. 

To  assist  in  reasonable  working  conditions  being  provided  for  sex  industry 
workers. 

All  sex  services  premises  must  be  fitted  with  the  necessary  services  and 
facilities required for Class 5 buildings (an office building used for professional 
or commercial purposes) under the Building Code of Australia. 

Full  details  of  Council’s  health  and  building  requirements  are  available  from 
Council.  These  requirements  must  be  complied  with  and  will  be  included  as 
conditions of development consent. 

261 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.8 

Transport and Parking for Other Development 

Strategic Approach 

Most of the transport and parking requirements for “other” developments covered by Part 5 
of this DCP are already specified in Sections 3.7 (Centres and Corridors) or 4.6 (Residential 
Areas.)  For  ease  of  reference  the specific  land  uses/developments  dealt  with  in  Part  5  are 
repeated in the following table with a link back to more detailed information in other Tables.  

In  addition,  the  transport  and  parking  requirements  for  the  five  land  uses/developments 
permitted only in the IN2 Light Industrial, RE1 Public Recreation and RE2 Private Recreation 
zones  (that  are  likely  to  generate  travel  and  parking  demand  if  implemented)  are  also 
outlined in this section. These are: 

 
 
 
 
 
Boat building and repair facilities 

Depots 

Research stations 

Environmental facilities 

Recreation facilities (outdoor)  

Objectives 

O1 

O2 

03 

O4 

O5 

Ensure the appropriate provision of secure and accessible parking supply to meet the 
needs of users in the residential zones. 

Encourage increased use of public transport, walking and cycling for trips generated 
by new development. 

Support Council’s on-street parking strategy in the Burwood Public Parking Strategy 
2010 and its successors. 

Require  a  broader  assessment  of  transport,  traffic  and  parking  factors  in  the 
Development Application process. 

Ensure  the  design  of  parking  areas  of  developments  meets  appropriate  criteria  for 
vehicular and pedestrian safety and personal security, and the needs of people with 
disabilities, and provides appropriate facilities for cyclists and pedestrians. 

O6 

Encourage  the  provision  of  parking  supply  that  contributes  to  the  enhancement  of 
development on sites and the quality of the streetscape. 

O7  Manage  the  impacts  of  impervious  surfaces  and  the  excavation  of  basements  to 
avoid  site  instability  and  the  interruption  to  water/ground  water  flows,  and  provide 
greater opportunity for deep soil planting. 

Provisions 

P1 

Basic  parking  requirement:  Development  must  provide  parking  spaces  on  site for 
each proposed land use in accordance with the Table 5. All parking generated by the 
development is to be provided on site, including any visitors parking. Contributions in 
lieu of on site provision of parking will not be accepted. 

262 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P2 

Compliance with Australian Standards: The design and construction of on-site: 

 
 
 
Parking areas and parking spaces 

Service and loading/unloading areas 

Access to, from and within these facilities 

are  to  comply  with  the  applicable  Australian  Standards.  These  Standards  cover  a 
range  of  technical  requirements  including  design  elements,  dimensions,  gradients, 
headroom,  curves,  delivery  and  service  areas,  and  special  requirements  for  people 
with disabilities.  

The applicable standards are the most recent versions (at the time of the application) 
of: 

       
AS 2890.1 Part 1: Off-street car parking. 
AS 2890.2 Part 2: Off-street commercial vehicle facilities. 
AS 2890.3 Part 3: Bicycle parking facilities. 
AS 2890.5 Part 5: On-street parking. 
AS 2890.6 Part 6: Off-street parking for people with disabilities. 
AS 1428.1: Design for access and mobility. 
AS  1735.12:  Lifts,  escalators  and  moving  walks  -  Facilities  for  persons  with 
disabilities. 

P3 

Vehicular Access and Footpath Crossings 

 
 
 
Vehicular  access  for  development  must  be  provided  from  lanes  and  minor  or 
secondary  streets  where  available,  rather  than  major  streets  or  Classified 
Roads. 

Vehicular access and footpath crossings must be minimised where provided the 
safety of pedestrians and cyclists must be maintained and there should  be no 
more impacts on bus operations. 

Vehicular  access  must  have  a  nominal  width  of  2.7  metres  over  the  footpath, 
and be perpendicular to the kerb alignment.  

P4 

Automated or Mechanical Car Stacking 

Installation  of  automated  or  mechanical  car  parking  systems  to  meet  car  parking 
requirements for developments is not supported. Experience with and observation of 
these  systems  indicates  significant  potential  for  adverse  impacts  arising  from  slow 
operation causing vehicle queuing, vehicle size constraints that are not appropriate in 
Australia,  and  unreliability  in  cases  of  mechanical,  hydraulic  or  electrical  failure. 
Provision  of  free-standing  spaces  accessed  by  ramps  is  preferred.  If  restricted  site 
size  limits  provision  of  traditional  on-site  parking,  consideration  should  be  given  to 
consolidation of lots to create a larger development site. 

P5 

Plans  and  reports  on  transport,  traffic  and  parking  to  support  Development 
Applications:  To  provide  adequate  information  for  the  assessment  of  proposals, 
Development  Applications  are  to  be  supported  by  one  of  the  following  reports, 
depending on the scale and impact of the proposal. 

1.  Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact Report and Management Plans 

Depending on the type and scale of development, Council at its discretion may require a 
Development Application to be accompanied by a Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact 
Report  and  Management  Plan  prepared  by  a  suitably  qualified  and  experienced 

263 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
professional in traffic and transport, addressing the following matters: 
 
The  proposed  development  and  its  suitability  in  terms  of  transport,  traffic  and 
parking impact 
The existing parking and traffic conditions 
The proposed traffic, parking and vehicle access arrangements 
The accessibility of public transport services, and walking and cycling facilities  
The  impact  of  the  development  on  the  surrounding  street  network  and  intended 
measures to ameliorate or manage that impact 
The  impact  of  the  proposed  development  on  the  efficient  and  safe  operation  of 
bus services and passenger access 
The design and compliance with the applicable Australian Standards in P2 above 
Pedestrian  and  cyclist  safety,  personal  security  and  safe  access  from  parking 
areas to activities on the site 
Signage and visual accessibility during day and night periods 
Provision for loading, unloading and service vehicles 
Provision for parking of bicycles and facilities for use of cyclists 
A  management  plan  covering  management  of  traffic  impacts  and  intended 
measures to encourage public transport use, walking and cycling, and to manage 
travel demand 
Consistency with general aims and zone objectives of the BLEP 2012  
Consistency with the aims and objectives of this BDCP set out in Section 2 
Compliance with the applicable requirements of this BDCP Part. 

    
 
  
    
   
2.  Transport, Traffic and Parking Impact Report 

Alternatively, depending on the type and scale of development, Council at its discretion 
may require a Development Application to be accompanied by a Transport, Traffic and 

Parking Impact Report prepared by a suitably qualified and experienced professional in 
traffic and transport, addressing the following matters:  
    
The proposed development 
The existing parking and traffic conditions and public transport conditions 
The proposed traffic, parking and access arrangements 
The  impact  of  the  development  on  traffic  conditions  in  the  surrounding  street 
network and intended measures to ameliorate or manage that impact 
The  intended  measures  to  encourage  public  transport  use,  walking  and  cycling, 
and reduce the use of private motor cars 
Compliance with the applicable requirements of this BDCP 
Consistency with the aims and objectives of this BDCP set out in Section 2.  

 
  
P6  

Cycling  

Increased use of cycle travel to and from developments can help reduce reliance on 
private  cars  and  improve  public  health.  Burwood  Council  and  the  Inner  West  Sub-
region have suitable terrain and the network of local and regional cycle paths is under 
continuous improvement. The following requirements apply: 

 
 
 
Standards  for  the  number  of  bicycle  parking  facilities  are  provided  in  Cycling 
Aspects  of  Austroads  Guides  (Austroads  and  Standards  Australia  1999)  and 
Planning Guidelines for Walking and Cycling (Department of Planning and the 
Roads  and  Traffic  Authority  2004),  developments  must  demonstrate 
compliance with the requirements of either of these publications. 
Design  of  bicycle  parking  facilities  (racks  and  lockers)  must  be  in  accordance 
with the provisions of Australian Standard 2890.3 – Parking Facilities or Cycling 
Aspects of Austroads Guides.  

Bicycle parking devices must meet the following general requirements: 

­ 

­ 

Enable wheels and frame to be locked to the device without damaging the 
vehicle. 

Be well located and lit for security purposes. 

264 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
­ 

­ 

­ 
­ 

Be in a convenient and accessible location outside pedestrian and vehicle 
movement paths. 

Be  protected  from  motor  vehicle  movements  and  useable  without 
damaging other bicycles. 

Be protected from the weather. 

Designed to fit in with the development. 

Table 5 - Car Parking Rates for Other Development 

Notes and 
other 
requirements 

NB: All parking 
for all 
developments 
must be 
provided on 
site. 

Applies to zones: 

IN2 Light Industrial 

RE1 Public Recreation 

RE2 Private Recreation 

Car  Parking  Rates  Applying  Where  The  Land 
Use Is Permitted In The Zones 

General 
  The  stated  parking  provision  rates  are  the 
minimum requirement, except where indicated 
otherwise for a specific land use. 

  Calculation  of  the  number  of  parking  spaces 
required 
to  be 
for  a  development 
determined  by  rounding  up  to  the  nearest 
whole  number  where  the  decimal  point  is  0.5 
and  above,  or  rounded  down  to  the  nearest 
whole  number  where  the  decimal  point  is 
below 0.5. 

is 

 Land Use 

  All parking is to be provided on the site of the 
indicated 
except 

development 
where 
otherwise for a specific land use. 
In  all  cases  the  square  metre  areas  in  the 
Table  refer  to  gross  floor  area  as  defined  in 
the BLEP 2012. 

 
Commercial Premises Category and Related 

Retail Premises Subgroup and Related 

Neighbourhood shops 

In the IN2 Light Industrial zone, one space per 50 
square metres. 

Community Category and Related 

Child care centres 

Recreation facilities 
(outdoor) 

Environmental facilities 

  See Table 2. 
  As determined case-by-case on the basis of a 
Transport,  Traffic  and  Parking  Impact  Report 
the 
and  Management  Plan  prepared  by 
applicant. 

  As  determined  by  Council  having  regard  to  a 
Transport,  Traffic  and  Parking  Impact  Report 
and Management Plan, or a Transport, Traffic 
and  Parking  Impact  Report,  prepared  by  the 
applicant at Council’s direction. 

Tourist and Visitor Accommodation Category 

  See Table 2. 

Backpackers’ 
accommodation, 
Bed and breakfast 
accommodation, 
Boarding houses 

265 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Miscellaneous 

Sex services premises 

See Table 2. 

Boat  building  and  repair 
facilities 

Depots 

Research stations 

As for light industries in Table 2. 

As for light industries in Table 2. 

  As  determined  by  Council  having  regard  to  a 
Transport,  Traffic  and  Parking  Impact  Report 
and Management Plan, or a Transport, Traffic 
and  Parking  Impact  Report,  prepared  by  the 
applicant at Council’s direction. 

5.9 

Exempt and Complying Development  

State  Environmental  Planning  Policy  (Exempt  and  Complying  Development  Codes)  2008 
(the Codes SEPP) specifies exempt development that has State-wide application under that 
Policy. Exempt development may be carried out without the need for development consent 
under the EP& A Act. 

The Codes SEPP also specifies complying development that has State-wide application, as 
well as conditions that are applicable to complying development under the SEPP. Complying 
development is development, or a class of development, that can be certified as approved if 
it complies with specified predetermined development standards. 

The  Standard  Instrument  LEP  allows  Schedules  2  and  3  to  contain  additional  exempt 
development  and  complying  development  respectively  that  are  not  specified  in  the  Codes 
SEPP. It also allows for other conditions to be specified to apply to complying development 
certificates. 

The  BLEP  2012  includes  in  Schedule  2  certain  advertising  and  advertising  structures  as 
additional  exempt  development. There  is  no  additional  complying  development  specified  in 
Schedule 3 of the BLEP 2012, nor are any additional conditions included in Schedule 3 to be 
attached to complying development certificates. 

The BDCP does not impact on Exempt and complying development 

Should a type of development not be listed as either Exempt or Complying Development in 
the Codes SEPP or in Schedule 2 to the BLEP 2012, or if the proposed development does 
not  meet  the  relevant  standards  or  criteria  the  development  requires  a  Development 
Application to be lodged with Council. The Development Application may be determined by 
Council with the granting of consent or consent may be refused. 

5.10 

Street Addressing and Numbering 

Introduction 

Council is responsible under NSW law to regulate the allocation of street address numbers 
pursuant to Section 124 (Order No.8) of the Local Government Act 1993. 

Council  allocates  street  address  numbers  to  new  lots  created  by  way  of  subdivision  under 
Torrens  Title,  Company  Title,  Strata  Title  or  Community  Title.  Council  also  considers 
requests for change to existing street number allocations. 

Street addressing and numbering is essential to the community for delivery of services and 
public safety, particularly when it comes to emergency response times. Governments rely on 
it for infrastructure delivery that serves the economy and improves people’s lives. 

266 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  following  public  interest  objectives  provide  the  main  guidance  in  Council’s  street 
addressing and numbering practices: 
 
clarity  of  numbering  for  emergency  services,  postage,  public  safety  and  utility 
authorities to locate and identify premises 
the consistency of the numbering system 
clarity of numbering for the public to locate and identify premises. 

  
Provisions 

P1 

P2 

P3 

P4 

P5 

P6 

P7 

Council’s  street  numbering  allocation  process  will  be  consistent  with  the  NSW 
Addressing  User  Manual  and  the  Australian  Standard  -  AS/NZS  4819:2003  -  on 
urban and rural addressing. 

All properties in a street will be allocated a unique street number. 

Street numbering will be sequential within a street. 

In  a  Strata  Title  subdivision,  unit  numbers  should,  for  clarity,  match  the  new  lot 
number in the relevant strata plan. 

Council  will  consider  a  request  to  alter  an  address/street  number  of  a  property  if 
there  are  clear  difficulties  associated  with  its  identification (i.e.  if the  access  to  the 
front  door  of  a  house  on  a  corner  lot  faces  the  other  street  or  if  a  property  has 
multiple street frontages). 

Requests  to  alter  an  address/street  number  of  a  property  that  is  made  solely  for 
cultural  or  religious  reasons  are  not  supported.    Council  will  only  agree  to  non-
standard numbering where it can be demonstrated that the above-mentioned public 
interest  objectives  and  the  system  in  the  NSW  Addressing  User  Manual  are  not 
compromised.  

Buyers of property should be aware that, when purchasing property Council will not 
place  any  weight  cultural  or  religious  considerations  in  determining  any  request  to 
alter street numbering. 

267 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 

Environmental Management 

6.1 

Preservation of Trees or Vegetation 

Introduction 

State Environmental Planning Policy (Vegetation in Non-Rural Areas) 2017 (the SEPP) has 
the  aim  of  preserving  the  amenity  of  non-rural  areas  of  the  State,  including  its  biodiversity 
values, through the preservation of trees and other vegetation. 

Authority  for  tree  preservation  is  derived  ultimately  from  Section  3.14  (1)  (e)  of  the 
Environmental  Planning  and  Assessment  Act  1979  which  enables  an  environmental 
planning  instrument  to  make  provision  for  or  with  respect  to,  among  other  things,  the 
protection or preservation of trees or vegetation. 

Purpose 

Clause  7  of  the  SEPP  provides  that  a  person  must  not  cut  down,  fell,  uproot,  kill,  poison, 
ringbark, burn or otherwise destroy, lop or otherwise remove a substantial portion of any tree 
or other vegetation that are prescribed in a DCP, without the authority conferred by: 

a) 

b) 

A development consent, or 

A permit granted by Council. 

As enabled by Clause 9 of the SEPP, the purpose of this section of the DCP is to prescribe 
the species or kinds of trees or other vegetation that are subject to the powers of Clause 7, 
and to clarify the circumstances where the powers do not apply. 

This section also: 

 
 
 
Explains and facilitates the procedures for applying for a permit under (b) above, 

Indicates  the  information  that  must  accompany  an  application  for  a  permit,  or  an 
application for a development consent relating to a tree or vegetation, and  

Informs  people  of  the  consequences  of  breaching  the  tree  preservation  provisions  of 
this DCP. 

Objectives 

The objectives in this DCP section for tree and vegetation preservation in Burwood LGA are 
to: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Secure and maintain the amenity of the urban forest. 

Preserve and protect existing trees from injury or destruction. 

Promote trees for ‘carbon sequestration’, solar access and shade. 

Provide no net loss, over time, of tree cover in the Burwood LGA. 

Promote and encourage the planting of replacement trees that are appropriate for the 
available site conditions. 

Require  landscaping  and  new  tree  planting  (where  appropriate)  as  part  of  new 
developments and garden renovations. 

268 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scope 

This DCP section applies to all species and kinds of trees in the Burwood LGA on privately 
owned land, publicly owned land or within any road reserve. 

In addition, this section provides that: 

  A person must not wilfully or deliberately fail to plant, protect or care for a tree, which is 
required to be planted, protected or cared for as a condition of a permit or development 
consent,  or fail  to  carry  out  any  other  activities  required  as  a condition  of  a  permit  or a 
consent. 

  Despite  any  other  clause  in  this  DCP  section,  no  tree  in  a  park,  reserve  or  street 
regardless  of  its  species  or  size,  may  be  pruned,  removed  or  damaged  in  any  way 
without Council's written consent. 

Exemptions 

A. 

Exempt Species of Trees 

The following species of trees located on private property are exempt species prescribed in 
this Development Control Plan: 

Bamboo (all species). 
Privet (Ligustrum species). 
Rubber (Ficus elastica). 
Loquat (Eriobotrya japonica). 
Rhus (Toxicodendron succedaneum). 
Umbrella (Schefflera species). 

        Willow (Salix species). 
 Populus (all species). 
 Robinia (all species). 
 Cocos Palm (Syagrus romanzoffianum). 
 Mulberry (Morus species). 
 Banana (Musa species). 
 Citrus (all species). 
 Fruit  trees  or  a  tree  that  is  grown  for  the  purposes  of  fruit,  or  is  harbouring  fruit  fly, 
except Australian native trees i.e. Syzygium species, Elaeocarpus species, etc. 
Any tree that has been declared a noxious weed under the Biosecurity Act 2015. 

 
These  species  of  trees  may  be  pruned  or  removed  without  the  need  for  a  permit  from 
Council or for development consent.  

All other species of trees in the Burwood LGA on privately owned land, publicly owned land 
or within any road reserve are subject to Part 2 and Part 3 of the SEPP. 

B.  

Allowable Tree Activities (no application required) 

Where a tree of any species does not exceed any of the following dimensions, as illustrated 
in Figure 40, the tree may be pruned or removed without the need for a permit from Council 
or for a development consent. The dimensions are: 

  
A height less than four metres and 
A crown spread less than two metres and 

269 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  trunk  diameter  less  than  150mm,  measured  at  a  distance  of  1.4  metres  above 
ground 
In the case of multi-trunked trees, the diameters of each trunk, measured at a distance 
of 1.4 metres above ground, are added together to be less than 150mm in total. 

Figure 40: Tree Dimensions for Allowable Tree Activities 

In  addition,  Council  does  not  require  an  application  nor  is  any  written  permit  or  consent 
required  to  be  issued  by  Council  for  the  following  works  or  activities  in  relation  to  trees  or 
other vegetation, on the condition that pruning is carried out by an arborist with a minimum 
Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) Level 3 in Arboriculture: 

  
  
 
Pruning of dead branches and/or torn storm-damaged branches. 
Routine  pruning  of  shrubs  and  trees  to  a  predetermined  height,  width  or  shape,  that 
are of the same age, height and species, and grown as a hedge. 
Removal of any species of mistletoe or parasitic plant from a tree. 
Minor  pruning  of  crowns  (i.e.  by  not more than 10%  of the  crown  or  branches  with  a 
diameter of not more than 100mm) to reduce interference with roofs, gutters and walls 
of buildings only. 
Up to 5% pruning of root systems to reduce interference with footings of buildings. 

C.  

Tree Activities by Public Authorities 

An application or a written permit or consent is not required to be issued by Council for tree 
works or activities by Council, the NSW State Emergency Service or other public authority in 
response to an emergency 

Legislation  also  provides  certain  exemptions  for  public  authorities  under  the  Biodiversity 
Conservation  Act  2016,  the  Forestry  Act  1916,  the  Electricity  Supply  Act  1995,  the  Roads 
Act 1993, the Surveying and Spatial Information Act 2002, and the Biosecurity Act 2015. 

270 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The permissibility of tree works or activities may be a matter that is determined by or under 
any of these Acts. 

6.1.2   Tree Permit Application Required 

Approval for tree activities covered by Section 6.1 of this DCP may be obtained through an 
application to Council.  

An  application  is  required  where  proposed  tree  activities  involve  trees  that  are  not  exempt 
species  listed  in  6.1.5A  or  not  allowable  as  a  result  of  the  tree  dimensions  described  in 
6.1.5B and in Figure 40 above.  

Council will consider the tree activity application in one of two ways: 

 
 
Activities requiring Council’s approval – Tree Permit application required. 

Activities  requiring  Council’s  approval  –  Development  Application  required  (see 
Section 6.1.7). 

An application for a Tree Permit must be made where the tree works or tree activities are not 
ancillary  to  or  associated  with  any  new  construction  or  development  on  the  land.  In  these 
cases  the  tree  works  or  activities  are  a  “stand  alone”  matter  and  do  not  involve  any  other 
development activity on the site. 

Making a Tree Permit Application – Property Owner 

Applications must be made by the owner or owners of the property where the tree stands, or 
alternatively bear the owner’s consent on the application. 

Applications  must  be  submitted  to  Council  using  the  Tree  Permit  application  form  which  is 
available  from  Council’s  Customer  Service  Counter  or  is  available  on  Council’s  website  at 
the following address.  

http://www.burwood.nsw.gov.au/verve/_resources/Tree_Permit_Application_Form.pdf  

The  application  is  to  be accompanied  by  the  nominated fee  as  determined  by  Council  and 
set  out  in  the  Schedule  of  Fees  and  Charges  and  included  in  the  Tree  Permit  application 
form. 

The application is to describe in sufficient detail the following information: 

 
     
The name/s and contact details of the tree owner or applicant, to permit access to the 
trees for inspection purposes. 
The location of the tree. 
The species (if known). 
The condition of the tree. 
The size of the tree. 
The reason for the proposed works to be carried out to the tree. 

Council  may  require  the  applicant  to  obtain  a  report  from  a  qualified  Consulting  Arborist, 
Practising  Structural  Engineer,  Licensed  Plumber  or  other  consultant  or  expert  to  assist 
Council in assessing and determining the permit application. 

Applications may be brought to the Burwood Council Customer Service Centre, or sent via 
post (including a cheque or money order for the required fee). 

271 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Permit Application – Neighbouring Property 

The owner of a property affected by overhang from a tree or trees on an adjoining property 
may apply for a permit to prune that part of the tree or trees overhanging the boundary of his 
or her property. 

Advisory Note:  
For the purpose of this section, the owner of a property where the tree stands is referred to as the “Tree Owner". 
An application for the removal or pruning of branches from a tree on an adjoining property 
must  include  written  evidence,  including  the  Tree  Owner's  signature,  of  the  Tree  Owner's 
consent to the proposed pruning or removal of branches as part of the application. 

If it is not possible to provide the Tree Owner’s consent, Council will consider an application 
for  pruning  (only)  where  it  is  satisfied  that  the  applicant  has  written  to  the  Tree  Owner 
requesting  the  Tree  Owner's  written  consent  to  the  application  (Notification)  and  the 
following conditions have been met: 

 
 
The applicant has not received a reply from the Tree Owner to the Notification within a 
reasonable time of providing the Notification to the Tree Owner or 

The applicant satisfies Council that the Tree Owner has refused to provide his or her 
written consent to the proposed pruning of branches. 

In  the  majority  of  circumstances  a  reasonable  time  will  be  not  less  than  28  days,  however 
Council  also  retains  discretion  to  consider  what  is  a  "reasonable  time"  on  a  case  by  case 
basis. 

Any  consent  granted  by  Council  under  this  section  does  not  authorise  the  applicant  (or 
someone engaged by the applicant) to enter any neighbouring property in order to carry out 
the approved works. 

Council  cannot  order  a  neighbouring  resident  to  remove  a  tree  located  on  their  property. 
Provisions for seeking a court order for a neighbour’s tree to be removed are set out below. 
However, in certain circumstances Council may consider applications made by a neighbour 
on an adjoining property, to where the tree stands, for the pruning of branches back to the 
boundary.  

For such applications to be considered, Council requires that the applicant obtain the written 
consent of the owner of the property where the tree stands (Tree Owner) to the pruning of 
the  tree  (a  space  for  the  Tree  Owner's  signature  has  been  provided  on  the  Tree  Permit 
Application Form). 

Alternatively, pursuant to section 7 of Trees (Disputes Between Neighbours) Act 2007 (The 
Act)  a  person  may  apply  to  have  their  matter  heard  by  the  Land  and  Environment  Court 
where they seek to remove or prune a neighbour’s tree and cannot resolve the issue. 

The Act does not apply to trees on land owned or managed by a Council. 

The purposes of the Act is to enable the Court to make orders to remedy, restrain or prevent 
damage  to  property  or  to  prevent  injury  to  any  person  when  a  tree  that  is  situated  on 
adjoining  land  might  cause  that  damage  or  injury.  The  Act  also  permits  the  Court  to  order 
compensation for or rectification of damage caused by a tree.  

An  application  must  be made  to the  Land  &  Environment  Court  in  writing  and the  required 
application fees paid. An application form must be completed as well as one or more of the 
Tree Dispute Claim Details forms.  

272 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The relevant forms can be downloaded from www.lawlink.nsw.gov.au/lec 

 
 
 
Application Form – Tree Dispute Application Form 

Tree Dispute Claim Details – Damage to Property or Injury to Person 

Tree Dispute Claim Details – High Hedges 

Application forms can be lodged at Burwood Local Court or the Land and Environment Court 
at Level 4, 225 Macquarie Street (Windeyer Chambers), Sydney. 

Under  Section  12  of  The  Act,  before  making  a  decision  on  an  application,  the  Court  must 
consider the following matters: 

(a)  

the location of the tree concerned in relation to the boundary of the land on which the 
tree is situated and any premises 

(b)   whether  interference  with  the  tree  would,  in  the absence  of  section  6 (3),  require  any 
consent or other authorisation under the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 
1979  or  the  Heritage  Act  1977  and,  if  so,  whether  any  such  consent  or  authorisation 
has been obtained: 

(b1)   whether  interference  with  the  trees  would,  in  the  absence  of  section  25  (t) 
(Legislative exclusions) of the Native Vegetation Act 2003, require approval under 
that Act 

(b2)   the impact any pruning (including the maintenance of the tree at a certain height, 

width or shape) would have on the tree 

(b3)   any  contribution  of  the  tree  to  privacy,  landscaping,  garden  design,  heritage 
values or protection from the sun, wind, noise, smells or smoke or the amenity of 
the land on which it is situated 

(c)   whether the tree has any historical, cultural, social or scientific value 

(d)   any contribution of the tree to the local ecosystem and biodiversity 

(e)   any  contribution  of  the  tree  to  the  natural  landscape  and  scenic  value  of  the  land  on 

which it is situated or the locality concerned 

(f)  

the intrinsic value of the tree to public amenity 

(g)   any impact of the tree on soil stability, the water table or other natural features of the 

land or locality concerned 

(h)  

if the applicant alleges that the tree concerned has caused, is causing, or is likely in the 
near future to cause, damage to the applicant’s property: 

(i)   anything, other than the tree, that has contributed, or is contributing, to any such 
damage  or  likelihood  of damage,  including  any  act  or  omission  by  the  applicant 
and the impact of any trees owned by the applicant 

(ii)   any  steps  taken  by  the  applicant  or  the  owner  of  the  land  on  which  the  tree  is 

situated to prevent or rectify any such damage 

(i)  

if the applicant alleges that the tree concerned is likely to cause injury to any person: 

(i) 

anything, other than the tree, that has contributed, or is contributing, to any such 
likelihood,  including  any  act  or  omission  by  the  applicant  and  the  impact  of  any 
trees owned by the applicant, and 

(ii)  any  steps  taken  by  the  applicant  or  the  owner  of  the  land  on  which  the  tree  is 

situated to prevent any such injury 

(j)  

such  other matters  as the  Court  considers  relevant  in  the  circumstances of  the  case. 
When a decision is reached by the LEC you and the other parties to the hearing will be 
given  a  copy  of  any  order  the  Court  makes.  If  a  person  fails  to  comply  with  any 

273 

 
 
 
 
 
 
requirement imposed by an order of the Court made under this Act, that person may be 
fined up to 1,000 penalty units (one penalty unit is currently $110). 

The Land and Environment Court has published Dispute Principles, Interpretation Guidance 
and Jurisdictional Findings made under this Act. These include: 

 
 
 
 
The tree was there first – (Dispute Principle) 

Urban  trees  and  ordinary  maintenance  issues  -  The  dropping  of  leaves,  flowers, 
fruit, seeds or small elements of deadwood by urban trees ordinarily will not provide the 
basis for ordering removal of or intervention with a tree – (Dispute Principle) 

“in  the  near  future”  –  constitutes  within  12  months  [s10(2)(a)  –  Interpretation 
Guidance] 

Damage  caused  by  animals,  birds  or  insects  is  not  caused  by  the  tree  which 
attracts them or provides habitat for them – [s 10(2) – Jurisdictional finding] 

6.1.3 

 Development Application Required 

Any proposed tree works which are ancillary to or associated with any new construction or 
development  on  the  land  will  be  considered  through  the  Development  Application  process 
under Part 4 of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979.  

In  these  cases,  the  proposed  tree  works  must  be  specified  in  a  landscape  plan  and 
submitted  to  Council  with  the  Development  Application  for  the  construction/development 
works  on  the  site.  The  landscape  plan  must  be  prepared  in  accordance  with  Council’s 
Landscaping  Code  and  must  include  the  details  specified  in  section  6.5  of  the  Code.  The 
Landscaping Code is available on Council’s website at the following location: 

http://www.burwood.nsw.gov.au/verve/_resources/Landscaping_Code.pdf  

Council will assess the proposed tree works as part of the Development Application process 
and  where  so  determined,  issue  consent  including  any  conditions,  as  part  of  the 
development consent. Where justified by the circumstances, Council may decline consent for 
the proposed tree works. 

Tree works or activities in accordance with a valid and current development consent issued 
by  Council  where  the  tree  works  are  ancillary  to  proposed  building  works  or  other 
development do not require any other kind of approval or permit from Council. 

6.1.4   Trees and Heritage  

Clause 10(3) of the SEPP, prevents Council from issuing a permit that allows any pruning or 
removal of any tree or other vegetation that: 

a)  Is or forms part of a heritage item or that is within a heritage conservation area (see 

Schedule 5 of the BLEP 2012), or 

b)  Is or forms part of an Aboriginal object or that is within an Aboriginal place of heritage 

significance. 

Clause  10(3)  provides  exceptions  that  allow  Council  to  issue  a  permit  where  it  is  satisfied 
that the proposed activity: 

c)  Is of a minor nature or is for the maintenance of the heritage item, Aboriginal object, 

Aboriginal place of heritage significance or heritage conservation area, and 

d)  Would not affect the heritage significance of the heritage item, Aboriginal object, 

Aboriginal place of heritage significance or heritage conservation area.  

274 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  BLEP  2012  Schedule  5  does  not  include  any  heritage  items  or  heritage  conservation 
areas that comprise a tree or other vegetation alone, or any matters of Aboriginal heritage.  

Most  tree  works  or  activities  involving  a  Schedule  5  heritage  item  or  within  a  heritage 
conservation  area  are  expected  to  form  part  of  a  Development  Application  for  other 
development  or  construction  activities.  In  these  cases  the  tree  works  will  be  dealt  with  as 
part  of  the  broader  Development  Application.  The  provisions  of  Clause  5.10  Heritage 
conservation of the BLEP 2012 may be applicable in the determination of the Development 
Application. 

In  cases  where  the  tree  works  involving  a  Schedule  5  heritage  item  or  within  a  heritage 
conservation area are not associated with any other development or construction activity, an 
application for a Tree Permit should be made in the first instance. 

Where  the  proposed  tree  works  or  activities  are  minor,  i.e.  within  the  terms  of  (c)  and  (d) 
above,  Council  will  determine  the  application  for  a  Tree  Permit  in  accordance  with  6.1.8 
above.  

If  after  consideration  of  the  Tree  Permit  application  Council  determines  that  the  proposed 
tree works or activities are not minor etc, that is falling outside the terms of (c) and (d) above, 
Council will advise the applicant that a Development Application must be lodged in place of 
the Tree Permit application.  

In these cases the normal Development Application processes will apply. As well as meeting 
the  information  requirements  for  Development  Applications,  a  landscape  plan  must  be 
prepared  and  submitted in  accordance  with  Council’s  Landscaping  Code  and  must  include 
the  details  specified  in  section  6.5  of  the  Code.  The  Landscaping  Code  is  available  on 
Council’s website at the following location: 

http://www.burwood.nsw.gov.au/verve/_resources/Landscaping_Code.pdf  

6.1.5  Assessment Process for a Tree Permit Application 

Criteria 

Applications for a Tree Permit will be considered by Council in accordance with the following 
criteria: 

  Whether the tree is causing or is likely to cause structural damage to a building in the 
near  future  or  damage  to  Council  infrastructure.  Council  may  require  that  such  an 
application be accompanied by a report from a practicing structural engineer. 

 
 
A  doctor's  certificate  (from  a  registered medical specialist  practitioner)  is  produced to 
the effect that the tree in question is injurious to the health of the resident or residents. 

The trunk of the tree is located within three metres of a building or five metres in the 
case of the following species: 

Camphor Laurel (Cinnamomum camphora). 
Liquidambar (Liquidambar styraciflua). 

i)  
ii)  
iii)   Broad-leaf Paper Bark (Melaleuca quinquenervia). 
iv)   River She-Oak (Casuarina cunninghamiana). 
v)   Chinese Tallow Tree (Triadica sebifera syn. Sapium sebiferum). 

  Whether the tree is a Camphor Laurel (Cinnamomum camphora) under 15m in height. 

 
The  tree  has  caused  extensive  damage  to  fences,  kerb  and  guttering,  sewer  or 
stormwater  drains,  where  there  are  no  permanent  repair  alternatives.  Council  may 
require that applications relating to sewer or stormwater pipe damage be accompanied 
by a licensed plumber's report. 

275 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pruning is necessary as the tree crown: 

i)  
ii)  

overhangs and is likely to damage a roof of a building or a swimming pool. 
interferes with overhead electricity service wires. 

iii)  

impedes safe access for pedestrians. 

It should be noted that applications based on loss of view or loss of sunlight will not generally 
form a basis for Council to issue a permit for the pruning or removal of a tree. Additionally, 
the dropping of leaves, flowers, fruit, seeds or small elements of deadwood by urban trees 
ordinarily will not provide the basis for Council to issue a permit to prune or remove a tree. 

Clause 8 of the SEPP allows consideration of whether: 

 
 
Trees are dying or dead and are not required as the habitat of native fauna, or 

Trees are a risk to human life or property. 

Advisory Note: 
Council  must  be  satisfied  that  these  circumstances  apply.  It  will  be  necessary  to  make  an  application  under 
Sections 8, 9 or 10 for this determination to be made by Council. These circumstances cannot be assumed and 
are not an excuse for taking action outside the application process.  

Council Determination of Applications 

On  receipt  of the  application for  a Tree  Permit, or  as  part  of  a  Development  Application, a 
Council Officer will inspect the tree to assess the application. 

If  the  Council  officer  requires  further  information  to  assess  the  application,  for  example,  in 
the  form  of  a  report  from  a  consulting  arborist  (refer  6.1.13  for  requirements  of  arborist 
reports), structural engineer, and/or licensed plumber, then the applicant will be advised and 
will be required to commission the required report or reports at the applicant's expense. 

For  Tree  Permit  applications  that  Council  considers  involve  significant  tree  works  or 
activities, or for any other application for which Council considers community consultation is 
appropriate,  Council  may  conduct  community  consultation  in  accordance  with  Council's 
"Community Consultation Protocol". Development applications that involve tree works will be 
subject only to the notification requirements of Part 7.2 of this DCP.  

All  applications  will  be  determined  by  either  approving  the  application  without  conditions 
approving the application subject to conditions or refusing the application. 

Conditions of Approval 

It is a condition of all approvals granted by Council for a Tree Permit or for tree works as part 
of development consent that all tree works are carried out in compliance with the Australian 
Standard – Pruning of Amenity Trees (AS4373–2007) and the WorkCover Code of Practice 
for the Amenity Tree Industry (1998). 

A  Tree  Permit  or  development  consent  granted  by  Council  must  be  made  available  for 
inspection  on  request  by  any  Council  staff  member  during  the  carrying  out  of  any  work 
permitted under such permit or consent. 

A Tree Permit granted by Council remains valid for one year from the date of issue. 
Where replanting is a condition of consent, replacement plants are to be protected and cared 
for until maturity so they remain in good condition and attain their natural size and form. 

A development consent that includes an approval for tree works is valid for 5 years. 

276 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Where  a  Tree  Permit  is  granted,  Council  will  impose  conditions,  including  that  the  work  is 
carried out by an arborist with a minimum Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) Level 3 
in Arboriculture. 

6.1.6 

 Right of Appeal 

Internal Appeal Process 

If an application for a Tree Permit is refused, the applicant may seek a review by an internal 
panel.  The  panel  will  consist  of  two  members  of  the  Burwood  Council  Executive  and  an 
independent expert. The internal panel will only consider applications where the refusal has 
been based on the assessment of subjective criteria or there has been a request to consider 
extenuating factors that are not accommodated within the set criteria. 

External Appeal Process 

Clause 12 of the SEPP provides that an applicant may appeal to the Land and Environment 
Court against the refusal by Council to grant a Tree Permit. An appeal is to be made within 3 
months of the refusal. 

Where tree works are determined by way of a Development Application, the same legal right 
of appeal applies, as applies for Development Applications. 

Reported Breaches 

On receiving a report of a breach of the SEPP and of this Part of the DCP, a Council officer 
may attend the site and order that any contravening works cease immediately. The Council 
Officer may gather any necessary information including: 

 
 
 
 
 
The name, address and contact details of the person or organisation carrying out the 
work. 

The  name,  address  and  contact  details  of  the  person  or  organisation  that  authorised 
the work. 

Descriptions,  diagrams  and  photographs  of  the  illegal  works,  plant,  equipment, 
machinery and persons. 

The person carrying out the contravening work and/or the Tree Owner (or the person 
who authorised the work) may be asked to show cause in writing as to why they should 
not be prosecuted in relation to the breach. 

The  Deputy  General  Manager  -  Land,  Infrastructure  and  Environment  will  determine 
whether the matter will proceed to prosecution. 

Penalties for Breaches 

Breaches  of  the  provisions  of  the  SEPP  are  subject  to  penalties  in  Section  9.56  of  the 
Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979. 

This  Section  also  provides  that  where  a  person  is  guilty  of  an  offence  involving  the 
destruction of or damage to a tree or vegetation, the court dealing with the offence may, in 
addition to or in substitution for any pecuniary penalty imposed or liable to be imposed, direct 
that person:  

(a)   To plant new trees and vegetation and maintain those trees and vegetation to a mature 

growth, and 

(b)   To provide security for the performance of any obligation imposed under paragraph (a). 

277 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
6.1.7 

 Arborists’ Reports that are Submitted to Council 

To assist assessment and determination of applications, Council requires that an Arborist’s 
report  in  relation  to  an  application  is  to  be  prepared  by  a  consulting  Arborist  who  holds  a 
minimum qualification of a Diploma (AQF Level 5) in Arboriculture. 
Arborist's reports submitted to Council in relation to an application must contain the following 
information: 

 
        
 
 
     
  
the  name,  address  and  telephone  number  of  the  qualified  consulting  arborist  who 
prepared the report (and the company, where applicable) 
the qualifications of the Arborist 
who commissioned the report and why the report was commissioned 
what the report examines 
the address of the site containing the tree or trees 
the date the Arborist conducted the inspection 
the methods or techniques used by the Arborist to inspect the tree or trees 
an abstract or synopsis of the findings from the Arborist's inspection 
a map or diagram of the site showing the location of the tree or trees, with the tree or 
trees numbered to correspond with the text in the Arborist's report 
the botanical and common name, height, crown spread, trunk diameter at 1.4m above 
ground level, and form of each tree inspected 
a discussion of the data collected – this may include, for example, detailed information 
regarding wounds, cavities, cracks, splits, forking, root-zone, pests and diseases 
supporting evidence where appropriate, such as photographs 
testing results should be submitted with clear and legible copies 
references used must be those referred to in the report 
data included in the report should be relevant to the application 
a discussion of all the options available – why they are recommended or why they are 
not  recommended,  e.g.,  can  the  built  structure  be  relocated  or  repaired  and  the  tree 
retained 
a recommendation as to the preferred option and the reasons for this recommendation 
the  information  in  the  report  should  be  presented  as  objectively  as  possible  without 
attempting to support specific outcomes. 

The above list is not exhaustive. The Arborist may choose to include further information or 
Council may require further information to properly assess and determine the application.  

Advisory Note: 
A  list  of  qualified  Arborists  can  be  obtained  from  the  Institute  of  Australian  Consulting  Arboriculturalists  (IACA) 
website  at  www.iaca.org.au.  Arboriculture  Australia  is  also  be  able  to  supply  the  details  of  a  suitably  qualified 
Arborist. For more information call 1300 664 374 or visit www.arboriculture.org.au. 

6.1.8 Definitions 

Arborist - A person with minimum training to AQF Level 3 in Arboriculture that enables the 
person to competently perform tree work. 

Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) - The national framework for all educational and 
training purposes in Australia. 

Building  -  For  the  purpose  of  section  6.1.9  a  building  is  a  permanent  Council  approved,  or 
principal  certifying  authority  approved,  single  storey  roofed  and  enclosed  structure  with  a 
floor space greater than thirty (30) square metres, constructed at natural ground level. 

Tree Owner - The owner of a property where the majority of a tree’s trunk meets the ground. 
278 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tree - A woody perennial plant equal to or exceeding four (4) metres in height with a trunk 
diameter equal to or exceeding 150mm measured at a distance of 1.4m above ground. 

Dead tree - A tree with no living vascular tissue. 

Destroy - Any immediate or ongoing process or activity leading to the death of a tree. 

Height - The distance measured vertically between the horizontal plane at the lowest point at 
the base of a tree which is immediately above ground and the horizontal plane immediately 
above the uppermost point of a tree. 

Injure  -  To  inflict  damage  to  a  tree  by  an  immediate  or  ongoing  process  or  activity  and 
includes: 

  Lopping and topping. 

  Poisoning,  including  applying  herbicides  and  other  plant  toxic  chemicals  to  a  tree  or 
spilling  (including  washing  off  or  directing  water  contaminated  by)  oil,  petroleum,  paint, 
cement, mortar and the like onto the root zone cutting, tearing, snapping and breaking off 
branches  and  roots  that  is  not  carried  out  in  accordance  with  accepted  arboricultural 
practices, does not qualify as "pruning" or is done for invalid reasons such as vandalism. 

  Ringbarking,  scarring  the  bark  when  operating  machinery, fixing  objects  (e.g.  signs)  by 
nails,  staples  or  wire,  using  tree  climbing  spikes  in  healthy  trees  marked  for  retention 
(except  for  access  to  an  injured  tree  worker)  or  fastening  materials  that  circle  and 
significantly  restrict  the  normal  vascular  function  of  the  trunk  or  branches  or  inflicting  a 
blaze on a tree as a marker point. 

  Damaging  a  tree's  root  zone  by  compaction  or  excavation,  stripping  of  topsoils, 
asphyxiation  by  burial  (including  unauthorised  filling  or  stockpiling  of  materials)  or  the 
alteration of ground level or water table which causes damage to the tree or any part of 
the tree. 

 
"Underscrubbing", unless carried out by hand tools, such as brushcutters and the like. 

Lopping - Indiscriminate cutting of branches or stems between branch unions, with the final 
cut leaving a stub. 

Pruning - The cutting of any stem dead or alive, back to the intersection of another live stem 
to a swollen area at the intersection called a branch collar, with a final cut at the outer edge 
of the collar leaving no stub. This also means any act or acts severing any part of a tree so 
as to cause a reduction of the air space occupied by the branches and foliage of a tree. 

Carbon  sequestration  -  The  process  of  trees  removing  carbon  from  the  atmosphere  and 
storing it in their wood as they grow. 

Remove - To dismantle a tree or to separate the tree from the ground where it is growing or 
dislodging it with earth moving equipment in order to kill the tree so that the tree, including its 
branches, foliage, trunk, stump and root system will not regrow. This includes the poisoning 
of  the  stump  and/or  roots  and/or  taking  away,  or  grinding  or  burning  out  its  remains  to 
prevent regrowth. 

Top - Cutting away part, or all, of a tree’s crown leaving a trunk and stubbed main branches 
to  reduce  its  height  and  spread.  This  is  an  antiquated  practice  which  damages  a  tree, 
reducing strength and vigour and predisposing it to premature decline. 

6.1.9 Related Information 

  Street Tree Management Strategy 

279 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Compliance and Enforcement Corporate Practice 
  Trees (Disputes Between Neighbours) Act 2006 

6.2 

Waste Management 

6.2.1 

 Aims and Objectives 

This aim of this BDCP section is to achieve effective waste management and minimisation in 
the  Burwood  local  government  area.  It  applies  to  all  areas  of  Burwood  local  government 
area. 

The objectives of this BDCP section are: 

 
 
To  reduce  the  demand  for  waste  disposal  through  waste  separation  and  resource 
recovery  in  demolition,  design,  construction  and  operation  of  buildings  and  land  use 
activities. 

To  achieve  the  design  of  waste  and  recycling  storage  systems  in  buildings  and  land 
use  activities  which  are  hygienic,  accessible,  quiet  to  operate,  adequate  size  and 
visually compatible with their surroundings. 

Applicants  must  familiarise  themselves  with  the  requirements  of  Council’s  adopted  Local 
Approvals  Policy  for  Managing  Waste  in  Public  Places  (Waste  Policy).  The  Policy  is 
available on Council’s website. 

What is a Waste Management Plan? 

This  BDCP  section  specifies  Council’s  requirements  for  waste  management  plans  to  be 
prepared and submitted in one or both of the following circumstances: 

Type  1  –  For  the  waste  management  practices  associated  with  the  ongoing  use  of  the 
premises. It must be lodged with Development Applications for: 

 
 
 
Change of use of existing premises. 

Alterations/additions  to  existing  premises  which  would  affect  waste  management 
facilities or waste management practices. 

New development. 

Type  2  –  for  the  type,  volume,  and  disposal  methods  of  materials  to  be  generated  during 
demolition and construction. It must be lodged prior to the commencement of any works. 
It applies to any Development Applications for: 

 
 
 
Demolition. 

Alterations/additions which exceed 20 sqm of existing premises. 

New development. 

Type 1 Applications - Ongoing Use of the Premises 

Waste Management Plan submission requirements for Development Applications (DA): 

Development type 

Waste Management Plan 
submission requirements 

Additional 
Requirements 

Controls to 
comply with 

Dwelling house  

Part 1 not applicable 

Refer to Part 3 

Refer to Part 3 

280 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or 
Dual Occupancy 

Part 2 lodged prior to 
commencement of any 
works 

- Controls 

Multi dwelling housing 
or 
Residential flat building 

Commercial 
development 
or 
Public building 
or 
Industrial development 

Part 1 lodged with DA 

Refer to Part 3 

Part 2 lodged prior to 
commencement of any 
works 

Part 1 lodged with DA 

Refer to Part 3 

Part 2 lodged prior to 
commencement of any 
works 

Mixed use development  Part 1 lodged with DA 

Refer to Part 3 

Part 2 lodged prior to 
commencement of any 
works 

Type 2 Applications - Demolition and Construction Waste 

Part  2  applies  to  all  Development  Applications  involving  demolition  and  or  construction.  It 
also applies to Development Applications where alterations/additions which exceed 20 sqm 
of existing premises and new buildings and development. 

Submission Requirements 

A  completed  copy  of  Part  2  of  the  Waste  Management  Plan  is  to  be  lodged  prior  to  the 
commencement of any works.  

Plans must include the following details: 

 
 
 
Location  of  on-site  areas  to  be  used  for  the  sorting  of  demolition  and  construction 
recyclables / waste. 

Location of on-site areas to be used for the storage of demolition recyclables / waste, 
including any containers / skip bins. 

Vehicular access to the site and on-site. 

Aims 

 
 
To maximise the reuse and recycling of demolition and construction materials. 

To reduce the volume of materials going to landfill. 

  Wherever  possible,  demolition  and  construction  materials  must  be  sorted  and  stored 
on-site.  Council  recognises  that  smaller  residential  sites  may  not  have  space  for  the 
storage  of  skip  bins,  therefore  refer  to  Council’s  Rubbish  Skips  Policy  for  the 
requirements regarding the placement of waste bins on public places. 

Performance Criteria 

 
 
Documentation  regarding  the  disposal  methods  and  destination  of  materials  must  be 
retained  by  the  applicant.  Council  may  audit  documentation  so  as  to  monitor 
compliance with the Waste Management Plan. 

All  demolition  and  construction  must  occur  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  of 
consent applying to a Development Application. 

281 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information 

There are many opportunities to reduce the volume of materials generated during demolition 
and construction going to landfill.  
Some examples of recyclable materials are provided in the following table: 

Materials on-site 

Reuse/Recycling Potential  

Concrete 

Bricks 

Roof tiles 

Hardwood beams 

Other timber 

Filling, levelling materials, road base 

Cleaned and/or rendered over for reuse 

Crushed for reuse in landscaping and driveways 

Floorboards, fencing, furniture 

Formwork, bridging, blocking and propping 

Doors, windows, fittings 

Second hand building materials 

Glass 

Synthetic  and  recycled  rubber    (e.g. 
under carpets) 

Aggregate for concrete production 

Used for safety barriers, speed humps 

Significant trees 

Green waste 

Soil 

Relocated on-site 

Mulching, composting, reuse as landscaping/fertiliser 

Reuse as fill 

6.2.2 

 Waste Management 

Design of Waste Management Facilities in Dwelling Houses and Dual Occupancies 

Application 

This section applies to: 

 
 
Development applications for new dwelling houses or dual occupancies. 

Development  applications  (affecting  waste  management)  for  alterations/additions  to 
existing dwelling houses or dual occupancies. 

Submission Requirements 

Plans must indicate: 

 
 
 
 
Location  of  indoor  waste/recycling  cupboard  (or  other  appropriate  storage  space)  for 
each dwelling. 

Location  of  an  on-site  waste/recycling  storage  area  for  each  dwelling  for  Council’s 
waste, recycling and green bins. 

On-site location for a compost container. 

Location of kerb-side collection point for the collection and empting of Council’s waste, 
recycling and green bins. 

Performance Criteria 

 
 
Each  dwelling  must  be  provided  with  an  indoor  waste/recycling  cupboard  (or  other 
appropriate storage). 

The indoor waste/recycling cupboard (or other appropriate space) must be able to hold 
a single day’s waste and hold separate containers for general waste, recyclables and 
compost material. 

282 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each  dwelling  must  be  provided  with  an  on-site  waste/recycling  storage  area  for 
Council’s waste, recycling and green bins. Council provides each dwelling with: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

120 litre general waste bin (red/grey lid), collected weekly 

240 litre recycling bin (yellow lid), collected fortnightly 

240 litre greenwaste bin (green lid) collected fortnightly 

The measurements for the bins are shown in Appendix 8.1. 

The  on-site  waste/recycling  storage  area  must  be  located  or  designed  in  a  way  in 
which it does not impact adversely on neighbouring properties and the appearance of 
the  premises. Where  possible,  the  waste/recycling  storage  area  should  be  located  in 
the rear yard. If the rear yard is not practical, the waste/recycling storage area can be 
located at the side of the dwelling or in front of the building (behind suitable screening). 

Between  collection  periods,  all  waste/recyclable  materials  generated  must  be  kept  in 
the bins so that the contents are not able to leak or overflow. 

Each dwelling must have a nominated kerbside collection point for the collection of the 
waste, recycling and greenwaste bins. 

It is the responsibility of each dwelling to present the bins at the nominated collection 
point the evening prior to collection day and then return the bins to their storage area 
no later than the evening of collection day. Bins are to be presented close to the kerb, 
clear of trees and other obstructions, with the handle adjacent to the road. 

Each  dwelling  must  be  provided  with  an  on-site  compost  container  storage  area 
(although  current  residents  may  not  want  to  operate  a  compost  container,  there  is  a 
space for future residents). 

Design of Waste Management Facilities in Multi Dwelling Housing and Residential Flat 
Buildings 

Application 

This section applies to: 

 
 
Development applications for new multi dwelling housings or residential flat buildings. 

Development  applications  (affecting  waste  management)  for  alterations/additions  to 
existing multi dwelling dwellings or residential flat buildings. 

Submission Requirements 

Plans must indicate: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Development  application  must  include  a  completed  copy  of  Part  1  of  the  Waste 
management plan. 

Location  of  each  dwelling’s  indoor  waste/recycling  cupboard  (or  other  appropriate 
space). 

Location  of  individual  waste/recycling  storage  areas  (e.g.  for  townhouses)  or  a 
communal  waste/recycling  storage  room/s 
for  Council’s  waste,  recycling  and 
greenwaste bins. 

Location of any waste chute/s. 

Location  of  any  service  rooms  (for  accessing  a  waste  chute)  on  each  floor  of  the 
building. 

Location of any compaction equipment. 

A  nominated  location  for  individual  compost  containers  or  communal  compost 
containers. 

283 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  nominated  kerbside  collection  point  for  the  collection  of  the  waste,  recycling  and 
greenwaste bins. 

The access way for moving bins from the storage area to the collection point (if storage 
is away from collection point). 

The on-site path of travel for collection vehicles (if collection is occurring on-site). 

Performance Criteria 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Each  dwelling  must  be  provided  with  an  indoor  waste/recycling  cupboard  (or  other 
appropriate storage). 

The indoor waste/recycling cupboard (or other appropriate space) must be able to hold 
a single day’s waste and hold separate containers for general waste, recyclables and 
compost material. 

Residential buildings containing more than three (3) storeys shall provide a system for 
transportation of waste from each floor level to the waste and recycling room(s) by way 
of a chute system.  

Multi  dwelling  housing  and  residential 
waste/recycling storage room/s designed in accordance with Appendix 8.1. 

flat  buildings  must 

include  communal 

Townhouse/villa  developments  with  individual  waste/recycling  storage  areas  must  be 
located  or  designed  in  a  way  in  which  it  does  not  impact  adversely  on  neighbouring 
properties and the appearance of the premises. 

There  must  be  an  unobstructed  and  uninterrupted  access  way  (as  per  Australian 
Standard 1428) from the waste/recycling room/s or storage areas to: 

i. 

Entry to any adaptable housing (refer to Australian Standard 4299) 

ii.  Main entrance to each residential flat building 

iii. 

Point at which the bins are collected 

When a proposal does not comply with these requirements, Council will consider alternative 
proposals  which  seek  to  achieve  a  reasonable  level  of  access  to  waste/recycling  storage 
areas or rooms. 

The waste/recycling storage area or room/s must be able to accommodate separate waste, 
recycling  and  greenwaste  containers,  as  described  in  the  next  point.  Council  provides  the 
following to multi dwelling dwellings and residential flat buildings: 

i.     240 litre general waste  bin (red / grey lid) per two dwellings collected weekly or 

660 litre  
240 litre recycling bin (yellow lid) collected fortnightly 
240 litre greenwaste bin (green lid) up to 3 bins per unit block collected fortnightly 

ii. 
iii. 

Bin measurements are provided in Appendix 8.1. 

 
 
 
Each  dwelling  (townhouse  or  villa  developments)  must  be  provided  with  an  on-site 
compost container storage area (although current residents may not want to operate a 
compost container, there is a space for future residents). 

Developments which include at least 10 dwellings will need a dedicated storage area of 
at  least  15  square  metres  for  the  temporary  storage  of  bulky  items  to  be  removed. 
Additional dwellings, that is every 10 dwellings, will require extra storage space again. 
The  storage  area  must  be  easily  accessible  to  all  residents  and  located  close  to  the 
main waste/recycling room/s. 

Between  collection  periods,  all  waste/recyclable  materials  generated  must  be  kept  in 
the bins so that the contents are not able to leak or overflow. 

284 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bins are able to be collected from a kerbside location, where number of bins and length 
of street frontage allow. However, in instances where kerbside collection is not possible 
bins are to be collected on-site. Bins to be collected on-site are to be collected either 
from  their  usual  storage  area  or  on-site  in  a  temporary  holding  area  located 
immediately inside the property boundary and close to a property entrance. 

  Where  bins  cannot  be  collected  from  the  kerbside,  the  development  must  allow  and 
design  for  on-site  access  of  collection  vehicles  to  enter  and  exit  the  site  in  a  forward 
direction and so the collection vehicles do not impede access to, within or from the site. 

 
 
 
 
If Council waste collectors and/or waste collection vehicles are required to enter a site 
to empty the bins, then arrangements must be in place, refer to Appendix 8.1. 

It is the responsibility of residents/owner’s corporation to move the bins to the collection 
point  no  earlier  than  the  evening  prior  to  collection  day  and  return  the  bins  to  the 
storage  area  by  no  later  than the  evening  of  collection  day.  Bins  are  to be  presented 
close to the kerb, clear of trees and other obstructions, with the handle adjacent to the 
road. 

Residents/owner’s  corporation  must  take  responsibility  for  the  management  of  waste 
and  recyclables  generated  at  the  site.  Including  the  management,  maintenance  and 
cleaning of all waste/recycling management facilities. 

Any garbage chutes must be designed as outlined in Appendix 8.1. 

Design of Waste Management Facilities in Commercial Development, Public Buildings 
and Industrial Development 

Application 

This section applies to: 

 
 
Development  applications 
development. 

for  new  commercial,  public  buildings  or 

industrial 

Development  applications  (that  affect  waste  management)  for  alterations/additions  to 
existing commercial buildings, public buildings or industrial development. 

Submission Requirements 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Development  application  must  include  a  completed  copy  of  Part  1  of  the  Waste 
management plan. 

Location of individual waste/recycling storage area/room for each tenancy or location of 
a communal waste/recycling storage area/room for the development. 

Location  of  an  indoor  waste/recycling  cupboard  for  each  (and  all)  kitchens  in  the 
development. 

Location of any waste chute/s. 

Location of any service rooms (to access waste chutes) on each floor of the building. 

Location of any service lifts used for transporting waste/recyclable materials. 

Location of any waste compaction equipment. 

Location of any trade wastewater discharge points. 

Identified on-site collection point for the collection and emptying of bins. 

The access way for moving bins from the storage area to the collection point (if storage 
is away from collection point). 

The on-site access way for collection vehicles (if vehicles are to enter the site). 

285 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performance Criteria 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All developments must include a designated waste/recycling storage area (designed in 
accordance  with  details  in  Appendix  8.1)  or  a  designated  waste/recycling  storage 
room (designed in accordance with details in Appendix 8.1). 

There  must  be  step  free  access  between  the  point  at  which  bins  are  collected  and 
emptied and the waste/recycling storage room/area. 

Depending  on  the  size  and  type  of  the  development,  it  may  be  that  a  separate 
waste/recycling storage room/area for each tenancy is required. 

Between  collection  periods,  all  waste/recyclable  materials  generated  must  be  kept  in 
the bins so that the contents are not able to leak or overflow. 

The separation of recyclable materials from the general waste must occur in all parts of 
the  development.  Arrangements  must  be  made  for  the  movement  of  recyclable 
materials and general waste to the main waste/recycling storage room/area.  

The waste/recycling storage area/room must be of a size to accommodate bins and of 
a sufficient volume to contain the quantity of waste generated (refer to Appendix 8.1) 

There  must  be  separate  containers  for  the  separation  of  waste  and  recyclable 
materials from the general waste stream. 

The volume and type of containers used to hold waste and recyclable materials must 
be compatible with the collection practices of the nominated waste contractor. 

  Waste  management  facilities  must  be  enclosed,  covered  and  maintained  so  as  to 

prevent polluted wastewater runoff from entering the stormwater system. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consideration should be given to the time of day at which containers are collected so 
as  to  minimise  adverse  impacts  on  residential  amenity,  pedestrian  movements  and 
vehicle movements. 

The  size  and  design  of  the  waste/recycling  storage  area/room  must  be  capable  of 
accommodating future use of the development. 

A  waste/recycling  cupboard  must  be  provided  for  each  and  all  kitchen  areas  in  a 
development,  including  kitchen  areas  in  hotel  rooms,  motel  rooms  and  staff  food 
preparation areas. Where possible waste/recycling containers should be collected from 
a rear lane access point. 

Premises  which  discharge  trade  wastewater  must  do  so  only  in  accordance  with  a 
written  agreement  from  Sydney  Water.  Sydney  Water  defines  trade  wastewater  as 
“any liquid, and any substance contained in it, which may be produced at the premises 
in an industrial and commercial activity, but does not include domestic wastewater (e.g. 
hand basins, showers and toilets)”. 

Premises  which  generate  at  least  50  litres  per  day  of meat,  poultry  or seafood  waste 
must have that waste collected on a daily basis or must store that waste in a dedicated 
and refrigerated waste storage area until collection. 

Regular maintenance and cleaning of waste management facilities must occur. It is the 
responsibility of tenants and cleaners to ensure this happens. 

Any  waste  chutes  must  be  designed  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  outlined  in 
Appendix 8.1. 

Integrated  developments  require  special  care  to  determine  if  the  waste  materials 
generated  on-site  is  such  that  a  particular  activity  is  classified  as  integrated 
development. 

i. 

Integrated  Development 
the  Environmental  Planning  and 
Assessment  Act  1979  Section  4.46  as  development  that,  in  order  for  it  to  be 
carried  out,  requires  development  consent  from  Council  and  depending  on 

is  defined  by 

286 

 
activities  conducted  on-site  requires  a  license  from  a  particular  government 
agency.  

ii.  When  lodging  an  application  for  an  activity  which  is  classified  as  integrated 
development, the applicant is to indicate on the Development Application form the 
fact  that  the  proposed  development  is  classified  as  integrated  development. 
Council  will  then  refer  the  Development  Application  to  the  relevant  government 
agency or agencies as part of the development assessment process. 

Design of Waste Management Facilities in Mixed Use Development 

Application 

This section applies to: 

 
 
Development applications for new mixed use development (e.g. developments includes 
both residential space and commercial space). 

Development  applications  (that  affect  waste  management)  for  alterations/additions  to 
existing mixed use development. 

Submission Requirements 

 
 
 
Development  application  must  include  a  completed  copy  of  Part  1  of  the  Waste 
management plan. 

Plans  submitted  with  a  Development  Application  which 
development must include information as required for residential development. 

includes 

residential 

Plans  submitted  with  a  Development  Application  which  includes  non-residential 
development must include information as required for non-residential development. 

Performance Criteria 

 
 
 
 
 
 
The  controls  listed  in  section  3.2.3  apply  to  the  residential  element  of  mixed  use 
development. 

The  controls  listed  in  section  3.3.3  apply  to  the  non-residential  element  of  mixed  use 
development. 

Mixed use development must incorporate separate waste management systems for the 
residential and the non-residential component. There must be separate waste/recycling 
storage areas/rooms for the residential and non-residential elements. 

The residential waste management system and the non-residential waste management 
system must be designed to efficiently operate without conflict. 

The  waste  management  system  for  the  non-residential  component  must  be  designed 
to reduce the potential for adverse amenity impacts upon the residential element. 

Commercial  tenants  must  be  discouraged  (through  signage  and  other  means)  from 
using the residential waste/recycling bins. 

  Where mixed use developments in business zones also have rear lane access Council 

may consider use of the rear lane for waste collection subject to the following criteria: 

­ 

­ 

­ 

The  lane  should  in  Council’s  opinion  have  adequate  width  (taking  into  account 
any permitted parking along the lane). 

The  lane  should  in  Council’s  opinion  serve  low  traffic  problems  such  that 
standing waste vehicles will not unduly impede traffic flow. 

For sites of 12 metres or more in width the development must allow and design 
for on-site access of a small rigid collection vehicle to enter and exit the site in a 

287 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
forward direction and also not impede access by other vehicles to, within or from 
the site.  

­ 

For narrower sites the collection vehicle will be permitted to stand in the lane and 
load from the bins brought to the property boundary. 

Advisory Note: 
For advice and requirements relating to the placement of waste containers (i.e. skip bins), refer to Council’s Skip 
Bin Policy. 

Appendices 

Please  see  the  Appendices  section  8.1  for  the  appendices  referred  to  in  this  DCP  Section 
6.2 Waste Management.  

6.3 

Acid Sulphate Soils 

The  BLEP  2012  includes  Clause  6.1  that  requires  development  consent  to  be  granted  by 
Council for the carrying out of works specified in the Table to the Clause, on a class of land 
also specified in the Table. Only two classes apply to land In the Burwood LGA being: 

Class 4 

Class 5 

Works more than 2 metres below the natural ground surface. 
Works  by  which  the  watertable  is  likely  to  be  lowered  more  than  2 
metres below the natural ground surface. 

Works  within  500  metres  of  adjacent  Class  1,  2,  3  or  4  land  that  is 
below 5 metres Australian Height Datum and by which the watertable is 
likely to be lowered below 1 metre Australian Height Datum on adjacent 
Class 1, 2, 3 or 4 land. 

Council cannot grant consent under Clause 6.1 unless an acid sulphate soils plan has been 
prepared for the proposed works in accordance with the Acid Sulfate Soils Manual and has 
been provided to the consent authority. Clause 6.1 provides for certain exemptions from this 
requirement, and applicants should have full regard to the detailed provisions of the Clause. 

Where an acid sulphate soils plan must be prepared for the proposed works in accordance 
with the Acid Sulfate Soils Manual, the manual may be accessed at: 
http://www.environment.nsw.gov.au/mao/acidsulfatesoils.htm  

6.4 

Flood Planning 

Planning  for  the  minimisation  of  flood  risk  to  life  and  property,  ensuring  development  is 
compatible  with  flood  risk  and  avoiding  significant  adverse  impacts  on  flood  behaviour  are 
addressed  in  the  BLEP  2012  by  Clause  6.2.  Council’s  approach  to  flooding  has  regard  to 
and  complies  with  the  New  South  Wales  Government’s  Floodplain  Development  Manual 
(FDM 2005). 

Clause 6.2 establishes a flood planning level of 1:100 ARI (average recurrent interval) flood 
event  plus  0.50m  freeboard.  Council  is  prevented  from  granting  consent  to  development 
unless criteria in Clause 6.2 (3) are met. 

Council  is  not  allowed  to  grant  consent  to  development  unless  it  is  satisfied  that  various 
requirements related to flood impacts are met. 

Council is about to undertake a floodplain management study for the Burwood LGA. When 
this  is  completed,  the  flood  planning  level  is  expected  to  be  established  with  greater 
certainty. 

288 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5  

Stormwater Management  

Council has adopted a separate Stormwater Management Code that aims to: 

 
 
 
 
To  preserve  and  protect  the  amenity  and  property  of  existing  residents,  property 
owners and the community. 

To ensure the safety of residents and the community. 

To  meet  reasonable  expectations  and  statutory  requirements  for  the  development  of 
properties. 

To protect the physical environment and receiving waters of catchments. 

To  meet  these  aims  Council  requires  that  all  developments/building  works  within  the 
Burwood  LGA  incorporate  stormwater  drainage  facilities  to  collect  and  convey  stormwater 
runoff to Council's system in accordance with the Code. 

The  Stormwater  Management  Code  does  not  form  part  of  this  DCP.  It  is  available  on 
Council’s website. 

6.6 

Landscaping for Development 

Council  has  adopted  a  separate  Landscaping  Code  that  aims  to  provide  guidelines  for  the 
preparation of Landscape Plans as an integral component of new development in Burwood. 

The  Landscaping  Code  has  been  prepared  to  raise  awareness  of  the  aesthetic,  functional 
and environmental benefits of landscaping. It aims to maintain and enhance existing themes 
and elements of the BTC and streetscapes of Burwood. The guidelines in the Code provide 
scope for creative design solutions for landscaping consistent with the intent of this Code. 

The Landscaping Code does not form part of this DCP. It is available on Council’s website. 

6.7 

Energy Efficiency and Sustainability 

Aims  

This BDCP section aims to: 

 
 
 
 
 
Have  regard  for  the  principles  of  Ecologically  Sustainable  Development  (ESD)  by 
encouraging energy efficient buildings which use readily renewable resources or utilise 
sustainable materials. 

Reduce energy consumption through choices in the design of development and use of 
materials. 

Reduce  energy  consumption  through  choices  in  mechanical  heating,  cooling  and 
artificial lighting. 

Reduce reliance on fossil fuels and minimise greenhouse gas emissions. 

Support and promote renewable energy initiatives. 

Provisions 

Residential Development 

P1   Where  applicable,  development  is  to  demonstrate  compliance  with  the  design 
principles  embodied  in  the  Building  Sustainability  Index  (BASIX).  All  commitments 
listed on a BASIX certificate must be marked on all relevant plans and specifications. 

289 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P2 

The  principles  and  properties  of  thermal  mass,  glazing,  insulation  and  solar  energy 
are to be recognised and incorporated into the design of residential development not 
subject to BASIX. 

Non-Residential Development 

P3 

P4 

The  non-residential  component  of  any  development  must  aim  to  achieve  at  least  a 
minimum of a 4.5 star rating under the National Australian Built Environment Rating 
(NABERS) system. 

Improve  the  control  of  mechanical  space  heating  and  cooling  by  designing 
heating/cooling systems to target only those spaces which require heating or cooling, 
not the whole building. 

P5 

Improve the efficiency of hot water systems by: 

 
 
 
 
Encouraging the use of solar powered hot water systems. Solar and heat pump 
systems must be eligible for at least 24 Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) 
and domestic type. 

Gas systems must have a minimum 3.5 star energy efficiency rating. 

Insulating hot water systems. 

Installing water saving devices, such as flow regulators, 3 stars Water Efficiency 
Labelling  and  Standards  Scheme  (WELS  Scheme)  rated  shower  heads,  dual 
flush toilets and tap aerators. 

P6 

P7  

P8 

Reduce reliance on artificial lighting and design lighting systems to target only those 
spaces which require lighting at any particular ‘off-peak’ time, not the whole building. 
Incorporate a timing system to automatically control the use of lighting throughout the 
building. 

All non-residential development Class 5-9 will need to comply with the Building Code 
of Australia energy efficiency provisions. 

An Energy Efficiency Report from a suitably qualified consultant that demonstrates a 
commitment  to  achieve  no  less  than  4  stars  under  the  Australian  Building 
Greenhouse  Rating  Scheme  or  equivalent  must be  provided  for  all  commercial  and 
industrial development with a construction cost of over $5 million. 

Advisory Note:  
Consideration must be given to the requirements of the Building Sustainability Index Certificate known as BASIX. 
This  certificate  confirms  that  the  development  has  passed  State  Government’s  targets  to  reduce  water  and 
energy use. Information is readily available from the BASIX website at www.basix.nsw.gov.au and the NABERS 
website at www.nabers.com.au. 

290 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7  Development Process Matters 

7.1 

Making a Development Application 

Information required to be submitted with a Development Application is detailed in Council’s 
Development Application packages, available on Council’s website.  

7.2 

Notification of Applications 

Introduction  

This section establishes Council’s policy and procedures for notification and exhibition to the 
public of Development Applications lodged with Council. It includes: 

 
 
 
New Development Applications. 

Amended plans or other details for undetermined Development Applications. 

Applications for modification of development consents already issued.  

The aims of this section of the BDCP are to: 

 
 
 
 
Provide  the  opportunity  for  public  comment  on  Development  Applications,  and  for 
participation in the decision making process. 

Inform  adjoining  and  nearby  property  occupiers/owners  of  certain  Development 
Applications lodged with Council. 

Establish the criteria for notification and public exhibition to be carried out, and not to 
be carried. 

Set out the procedure for notifications and public exhibitions, and the consideration of 
submissions.  

The following keys terms are relevant to applying this BDCP section: 

 
 
 
“Notification”  means  an  advice  provided  to  a  property  owner  or  occupier  about  a 
Development Application lodged with Council. 

“Public  Exhibition”  means  the  specified  period  in  which  a  Development  Application  is 
made available in the Customer Service Centre at Council’s Office for inspection and 
comment by the public. 

“Calendar Days” means consecutive days inclusive of weekends. 

Advisory Note: 
A 
for  public 
limited 
notification/exhibition.  These are  set  out  in  the  Environmental  Planning  and  Assessment  (EP&A)  Act  1979  and 
the Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2000, and are not further addressed in this BDCP.  

range  of  Development  Applications  are  subject 

requirements 

to  statutory 

Notification of New Development Applications 

Where the development proposed in an application has the potential, in Council’s opinion, to 
detrimentally  affect  the  enjoyment  or  amenity  of  the  adjoining  or  neighbouring  properties, 
Council will send written notice of the application by way of a letter to the persons who own 
those  properties  according  to  Council’s  Rates  Records,  and  to  non-owner  occupiers  of the 
properties.  

The  extent  and  number  of  properties  that  will  be  notified  varies  according  to  the  proposed 
development in the application. This is set out in the Schedule below.  

Where  premises  that  are  the  subject  of  a  Development  Application  are  occupied  by  other 
than the owners, the occupiers will be included in the notification. 

291 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Where  a  property  to  be  notified  is  a  strata-titled  residential  flat  building  or  multi  dwelling 
housing,  all  of  the  owners  and  non-owner  occupiers  of  residential  units  as  well  as  the 
Owners  Corporation  will  receive  notification.  Applications  involving  minor  works  such  as 
carports, fences, pergolas, etc. are excepted in these cases notification will be to the Owners 
Corporation only. 

Where  a  property  to  be  notified  is  owned  by  Housing  NSW  or  its  successor  agency, 
notification will be forwarded to all occupants of the Housing NSW property, and also to that 
State Government agency. 

Where a property to be notified is owned by the Department of Education (public schools) or 
another  ownership  body  (private  schools),  the  Principal  of  the  school  concerned  is  to  be 
included in the notification process. 
Where  a  Development  Application  relates  to  land  adjacent  to  the  border  of  another  LGA, 
Council will notify only the General Manager of the adjoining Council, and not individual land 
owners  in  the  other  LGA.  This  notification  will  not  be  carried  out  where  the  Development 
Application land has frontage to Coronation Parade or a common boundary with open space 
adjoining the Cooks River, as there is an adequate physical separation in these cases. 

Where  in  the  opinion  of  Council’s  Manager  Building  and  Development,  an  application 
proposes  development  that  has  the  potential  to  cause  substantial  detrimental  impacts  on 
neighbouring properties and their owners/occupiers by: 

 
 
 
The visual quality of the proposal in the streetscape. 

Hours of operation. 

Front and side return fences. 

  Wider public interest, particularly associated with an earlier application. 

the properties notified may be extended beyond that indicated in the Schedule below.  

Where  development  in  an  application  is  considered  in  the  opinion  of  Council’s  Manager 
Building  and  Development  to  be  of major  significance  in  the  Burwood  LGA,  in  part  or  as  a 
whole,  notification  by  letter  box  drop  will  be  carried  out  in  a  broader  area  deemed 
appropriate by the Manager Building and Development, and optional notification in the local 
newspaper may be instituted.  

A  general  list  of  new  Development  Applications  received  by  Council  in  the  preceding  two 
weeks is published in a local newspaper fortnightly. This list is also posted on Council’s web 
site. 

Form of Notification 

The  letter  providing  written  notification  of  a  Development  Application  forwarded  by  Council 
shall contain the following information: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
The street address of the site or another property description where applicable. 

The use/description of the proposed development. 

Notification plans of the development. 

The location where plans/documentation may be inspected. 

The time period within which written submissions are to be made. 

Arrangements  for  addressing  the  Councillors  if  the  matter  is  to  be  reported  to  a 
Council/Committee Meeting. 

292 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Advice that valid objections will be reported to Council and a copy of such letters will be 
publicly displayed in the Business Papers. 

Any  legislative  requirements  deemed  relevant,  such  as  the  disclosure  of  political 
donations and gifts. 

Notification Plans 

The letter of notification of Development Applications for dwelling houses will attach plans of 
the  proposed  development.  The  applicant  is  to  provide  two  sets  of  suitable  A4  size  plans 
with the Development Applications for this purpose. 

The  plans  must  include  the  external  elevations  of  the  development  of  a  scale  and  with 
clearly figured dimensions as to indicate size, height and position of the building on the site 
and  its  relationship  to  the  boundaries,  to  effectively  delineate  the  features  of  the  proposal. 
Proposed  additions  and  alterations  to  existing  buildings  must  be  coloured  or  similarly 
distinguished to clearly identify the proposal. 

Advisory Note:  
Development Applications and associated documents received in relation to a proposed development are “open 
access” documents under Schedule 1 of the Government Information (Public Access) Regulation 2009, with the 
exception of:  
(a)  

the plans and specifications for any residential parts of a proposed building other than plans that merely 
show its height and its external configuration in relation to the site on which it is proposed to be erected 
or  
commercial  information,  if  the  information  would  be  likely  to  prejudice  the  commercial  position  of  the 
person who supplied it or to reveal a trade secret. 

(b)  

The applicant is to provide notification material exclusive of (a) and (b) above, or consent will be taken to have 
been given for its dissemination. 

Although  no  member  of  the  public  has  a  right  to  inspect  details  of  the  internal  layout  of  another  person’s 
residence, Council has discretion to allow access to this information during an exhibition period. This is necessary 
to allow the disclosure of room uses relative to window locations because privacy impacts and overlooking will 
vary as a result of different room uses. 

Public Exhibition Periods 

Where  a  written  notification  of  a  Development  Application  is  forwarded  by  Council,  the 
notification letter and the notification plans will be made available for inspection by the public 
at the Council’s Customer Service Centre during the notification period specified in the letter.  

In  addition,  the  material  may  also  be  made  available  at  the  Burwood  Library  for  major 
developments, or in other cases at the discretion of the Manager Building and Development, 
such as applications with the potential to impact detrimentally on the Burwood LGA.  

The length of the public exhibition period  varies  according to the proposed development in 
the application. This is based on the likely interest of the persons inspecting the plans, the 
complexity and effects of the proposals, the statutory requirements of Council in processing 
applications  in  an  expeditious  manner. The  Schedule  below  sets  out the exhibition  periods 
for different types of development.  

Where  the  final  calendar  day  of  the  exhibition  period  falls  on  a  weekend  or  public  holiday, 
the period will be extended to the next working day. The exhibition period may be extended 
to take into account School Holidays or some other major public event. 

The period of exhibition may be extended if deemed necessary by the General Manager or 
by  Council  resolution,  based  on  community  wishes  and  the  wider  effects  relating  to  the 
possible detrimental effect on the enjoyment of occupiers and/or owners’ premises. 

293 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The period of exhibition may be reduced below the period stated in the Schedule where, in 
the opinion of the Manager Building and Development, the proposal before Council is one of 
an  emergency  nature,  e.g.  re-cladding  a  roof  following  a  storm,  or  involves  minor 
development with minimal or nil effect, on local amenity. 

Notification of Amended Plans and Applications for Modification of Consent 

Where  Council  receives  amended  plans  or  other  details  pertaining  to  a  previously  notified 
but yet undetermined Development Application, the amended details may be re-notified. 

Where  Council  receives  an  application  under  Section  9.56  of  the  Environmental  Planning 
and Assessment Act 1979 for modification to a development consent that has already been 
issued, the application may be re-notified.  

Additional Notification Requirements - Joint Regional Planning Panel 

Development  applications  which  would,  if  progressed,  be  referred  to  the  Joint  Regional 
Planning  Panel  (JRPP)  for  determination  and  which  relate  to  land  outside  the  BTC,  are 
subject to the following additional notification parameters: 

 
 
 
Public  exhibition  for  a  period  of  28  days  at  Council  Customer  Service  Centre  and 
Burwood Library. 

An exhibition notice displayed in the local press in either the Mayoral Column or as a 
separate  notice  in  accordance  with  Clause  89  of  the  Environmental  Planning  and 
Assessment Regulations 2000. 

An  area  of  notification  determined  by  the  Deputy  General  Manager  –  Land 
Infrastructure  and  Environment  taking  into  account  the  scale  and  nature  of  the 
proposed development. 

7.2.1 

 Exceptions to Notification Procedure 

New Development Applications 

Notification in accordance with this BDCP part will not be undertaken for new Development 
Applications in the following circumstances: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Development qualifies as ‘exempt development’ or ‘complying development’ under an 
environmental planning instrument. 

Change of use of commercial premises where, in the opinion of the Manager Building 
and  Development,  there  will  be  little,  or  no  adverse  impact  on  adjoining  or  nearby 
occupants. 

Minor  alterations/additions  to  commercial  premises  in  Business  zones,  where  the  site 
does not adjoin residential zoned land. 

Signs  where,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Manager  Building  and  Development,  there  will  be 
minimal impact on residential amenity and/or traffic safety. 

The proposed development will not be visible externally from a public place and there 
will be little or no impact on residential amenity and/or traffic safety. 

Land  subdivision  and  strata  subdivision  of  existing  development  where  there  is  no 
physical change to a building or land, e.g. strata of existing residential flat buildings. 

Minor  changes  to  a  design  which  are  required  by  Council  where  such  changes  are 
deemed  to  have  no  meaningful  effect  upon  adjoining  properties  or  the  amenity  of 
residents of the area. 

Amended Plans/Details and Modification Applications 

294 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notification  in  accordance  with  this  BDCP  part  may  not  be  undertaken  for  amended 
plans/details  for  as  yet  undetermined  Development  Applications,  or  for  applications  under 
Section  96  for  modification  of  an  existing  consent,  where  in  the  opinion  of  the  Manager 
Building and Development one or more of the following circumstances apply: 

 
 
 
 
 
The  amended  or  modified  details  are  not  substantially  different,  are  minor  or  non-
consequential, or represent a general improvement in terms of impact.  

The  amended  or  modified  details  do  not  increase  the  height,  scale  and  bulk  of  the 
proposal or alter the character of the proposed development. 

The amended or modified details have no relationship. 

A  modification  application  relates  to  technical  conditions  of  approval  and  such 
conditions were not subject to a submission in relation to the original application. 

The  amended  or  modified  details  only  relate  to  a  portion  of  the  development  or  a 
specific  design  element,  in  which  cases  only  the  persons  directly  affected  by  the 
changes will be notified. 

7.2.2   Submissions and determination of applications 

Submission requirements 

requirements  and  process 

Council’s 
to  notified 
Development  Applications,  amended  plans  or  modification  of  consent  applications,  from 
within the notification area are as follows: 

for  consideration  of  submissions 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Submissions should be in writing and addressed to the General Manager. 

Submissions  should  contain  a  name  and  address,  day  contact  number  and  private 
telephone numbers of the respondent to enable contact by Council. 

Copies  of  letters  to  Council,  including  names  and  addresses  of  the  respondents,  will 
generally be published in public reports to Council unless restricted by the Privacy and 
Personal  Information  Protection  Act  1998  and  the  Government  Information  (Public 
Access) Act 2009. 

If  submissions  are  received  after  the  expiry  of  the  exhibition  period  and  prior  to 
Council’s  processing  of  the  application,  Council  may  at  its  discretion  consider  such 
submissions up to the time of a decision on the application.  

Council  may  assume  there  are  no  objections  from  residents  to  a  proposal  if  written 
submissions are not received. 

Council may at its discretion consider submissions from outside the notification area. 

Submissions and Determination of Applications 

If  no  substantial  nor  relevant  objections  are  raised  in  submissions  to  a  notified  application, 
then  such  application  may  be  processed  in  accordance  with  the  delegated  authority  of 
Council to the relevant staff. 

Advisory Note:  
A substantial or relevant objection is deemed to be an objection that must have a town planning basis pursuant to 
Section  4.15  of  the  Environmental  Planning  and  Assessment  Act  1979  and  relates  to  the  Development 
Application that was the subject of the notification.  

Where  determination  of a  notified  application  proceeds  to  a  Council/Committee  Meeting  all 
persons  and  head  petitioners,  (or  first  signatory  on  a  petition  where  there  is  no  head 
petitioner) who have made a submission will be advised (subject to sufficient contact details 
being provided) of the details of the meeting to which the application is referred. This will be 

295 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
done before the weekend prior to the scheduled meeting, and details of the report availability 
will be provided. Notice of the Council/Committee Meeting may be either by letter, facsimile, 
email or by personal communication.  

An  invitation  will  be  given  to  address  the  Councillors  prior  to  the  Council  decision  being 
made. 

Where an application is determined at a Council/Committee Meeting, advice will be provided 
in  writing  of  Council’s  decision  to  persons  and  head  petitioners,  (or  first  signatory  on  a 
petition where there is no head petitioner) who have made a submission. 

Rescission Motions and Notices of Motion 

Rescission Motions or Notices of Motion that relate to notified applications will be advised by 
Council to those persons who made a submission to Council on the proposal. 

Notification of further Council/Committee Meetings may be either by letter, facsimile, email or 
by personal communication to the objectors/respondents advising them of the time, date and 
place of the meeting to consider such motion, at which no further public comment can take 
place. 

When  a  Rescission  Motion  is  being  considered,  members  of  the  public  are  not  given  the 
opportunity to address the Council/Committee, due to the matter having been debated at a 
previous  meeting  where 
the 
Council/Committee. The purpose of a Rescission Motion is simply to re-consider a previous 
decision. Generally, no  new information is considered during the debate on the Rescission 
Motion. 

the  public  were  given 

the  opportunity 

to  address 

7.2.3 

 Notification Schedule 

Notification will be undertaken generally in accordance with the following schedule: 

Type of Development 

No. of Properties Notified 

Period of Exhibition 
(Calendar Days) 

All applications (other than those listed 
in this table below, or specifically 
referred to in Item 7 and Item 12 of this 
BDCP Part 

Residential Flat Developments 

Hospitals, Boarding Houses or 
Churches 

Major commercial, other major non-
residential developments or major 
residential flat developments 

Specific Development Application 
Types 

20 

20 

20 

40 

As referred to below  

10  

14 

14 

21 

10 

296 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Extent of Notification 

Notification will be undertaken generally in accordance with the following diagrams in so far 
as the diagrams can represent a typical land pattern. 

Notification of 20 properties, comprising 5 at rear, 5 each side and 5 opposite. 

PUBLIC ROAD 

Subject site 

Extent of Notified 
Properties 

Notification of 40 properties, comprising 10 at rear, 10 each side and 10 opposite. 

PUBLIC ROAD 

Specific Development Application Types 

New Two-Storey Houses and First Floor Additions (including Demolition) 
Two (2) neighbours each side of the proposal and three (3) to front and three (3) to rear. 

PUBLIC ROAD 

297 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
New Single Storey Houses 
Each adjoining neighbour plus three (3) properties opposite. 

PUBLIC ROAD 

Ground Floor Alterations and Additions 
Each adjoining neighbour. 

PUBLIC ROAD 

Subject site 

Extent of Notified 
Properties 

Carports Forward of the Building Line and Front Fences 
Neighbour on each side plus three (3) properties opposite. 

PUBLIC ROAD 

298 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carports at the Side of a Building 
Each adjoining neighbour plus three (3) properties opposite. 

PUBLIC ROAD 

Swimming Pools, Garages, Rear Carports and Outbuildings 
Each adjoining neighbour. 

PUBLIC ROAD 

Subject site 

Extent of Notified 
Properties 

7.3 

Voluntary Planning Agreements 

Any  person  who  lodges  a  Development  Application  with  Council,  may  accompany  such 
application with an offer to enter into a Voluntary Planning Agreement (VPA) under section 
7.4 of the EP&A Act. 

Pursuant to section 7.7 of the EP&A Act, Council may require a VPA to be entered into as a 
condition of development consent, but only if it requires a planning agreement that is in the 
terms of an offer made by the developer in connection with:  

  
The Development Application, or  
A  change  to  an  environmental  planning  instrument  sought  by  the  developer  for  the 
purposes of making the Development Application. 

Council has a separate policy on the use of VPAs to advise and guide on the preparation of 
a VPA where it is intended to accompany a new Development Application as a condition of 
development consent.  

The VPA Policy does not form part of this DCP. It is available on Council’s website. 

299 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.4 

Mediation 

Council  has  adopted  a  policy  to  guide  mediation  for  major  contentious  Development 
Applications  or  applications  with  a  wide  public  interest,  where  there  is  a  substantial 
divergence  of  positions  held  by  applicants  and  persons  who  have  made  submissions 
resulting from a formal notification or exhibition process by Council.  

The objectives of the policy are: 

 
 
To encourage reasoned debate, identification of issues and possible resolution of 
matters.  

To establish a structured but informal procedure for mediation.  

The Mediation Policy does not form part of this DCP. It is available on Council’s website. 

300 

 
 
 
 
8  Appendices 

8.1 

Waste Management (Relates to Section 6.2) 

8.1.1 

 Residential Bin Measurements 

Bin Type 

Height (mm) 

Depth (mm) 

Width (mm) 

120 litre 

945 

240 litre 

1100 

660 litre 

1220 

620 

740 

640 

535 

580 

1340 

Shape of Council’s 120L and 240L bins. 

Diagram: Better Practice Guide for Waste Management in Multi-Unit Dwellings, Resource NSW, 
2002. 

8.1.2 

 Waste/Recycling Storage Rooms/Areas 

This appendix applies to Development Applications for multi dwelling housing, residential flat 
buildings,  commercial  development,  public  buildings  and  industrial  development  which 
include waste/recycling storage rooms. 

  Waste/recycling  storage  rooms/areas  must  be  constructed  in  accordance  with  the 

requirements of the Building Code of Australia (BCA) 

Location and Appearance 

  Waste/recycling  storage  rooms  must  be  integrated  into  the  design  of  the  overall 
development. It is preferable that such rooms be located behind the front building line. 
Wherever possible, the room should be in a basement location within the main building 
envelope (not a stand alone structure). Building materials and finishes which are visible 
from outside should be similar in style and quality to the external materials used in the 
rest of the development. 

  Waste/recycling  storage  rooms  must  be  located  and  designed  in  a  manner  which 
reduces  adverse  impacts  on  residents  of  any  dwellings  on  the  site  and  neighbouring 
properties.  The  location  and  design  of  the  room  should  minimise  adverse  impacts 
regarding: 

i. 

Location of the room to any dwellings 

301 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ii. 

Visibility of the room 

iii.  Noise generated by any equipment located within the room 

iv.  Noise generated by movement of the bins to and from the collection point 

v.  Noise generated by collection vehicles accessing the site 

vi.  Odours associated with the storage room 

Size 

  Waste/recycling  storage  rooms/areas  must  be  of  adequate  size  to  accommodate  all 

waste and recycling bins associated with the development 

 
 
Multi dwelling dwellings and residential flat buildings, the waste/recycling storage room 
must be able to accommodate bins as described in section 3.2.3 

Non-residential  development,  the  waste/recycling  storage  room  must  be  able  to 
accommodate  separate  general  waste  bins  and  recycling  bins  which  are  able  to 
contain the quantity of waste generated between collections. 

Layout 

  Within  waste/recycling  storage  rooms,  containers  used  for  the  storage  of  recyclable 
materials  should  be  separate  from  general  waste  storage  containers,  to  reduce  the 
potential for contamination of recyclable material. 

 
The  storage  room/areas  floors  and  any  associated  access  ways  must  be  sufficiently 
level  so  that  access  for  the  emptying  of  containers  can  occur  in  accordance  with 
WorkCover NSW occupational health and safety requirements. 

Access: Waste/Recycling 

 
 
 
 
 
If on-site emptying of residential bins is to occur, the development must be designed to 
allow  for  access  by  collection  vehicles.  The  development  must  allow  the  collection 
vehicle to enter and exit the site in a forward direction and not impede access to, from 
or within the site. 

The  design  of  the  development  must  allow  for  vehicle  access  to  the  site  for  the 
collection  of  non-residential  waste,  by 
the  nominated  waste  contractor.  The 
development  must  allow  the  collection  vehicle  to  enter  and  exit  the  site  in  a  forward 
direction and not impede access to, from or within the site. 

Access  driveways  to  be  used  by  collection  vehicles  must  be  designed  to  be  strong 
enough to support the vehicles. 

If  on-site  emptying  of  the  bins  is  to  occur,  the  servicing  arrangements  must  be 
compatible with the operation of any other loading/unloading facilities on-site. 

The  emptying  of  waste/recycling  storage  containers  must  be  able  to  occur  in 
accordance with WorkCover NSW occupational health and safety requirements. 

Access: General 

 
In multi dwelling dwellings and residential flat buildings there must be an unobstructed 
and uninterrupted access way (as per Australian Standard 1428) to: 

i. 

Entry to any adaptable housing (refer to Australian Standard 4299) 

ii.  Main entrance to each residential flat building 

iii.  Point at which the bins are collected 

302 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When a proposal does not comply with these requirements, Council will consider alternative 
proposals  which  seek  to  achieve  a  reasonable  level  of  access  to  waste/recycling  storage 
areas or rooms. 

 
 
 
In commercial development, public buildings, and industrial development there must be 
convenient  access  from  each  tenancy  to  the  waste/recycling  storage  room/s.  There 
must  be  step  free  access  between  the  point  at  which  bins  are  collected  and  emptied 
and the waste/recycling storage room/area. 

The storage room is not to be accessible to the general public 

Vermin must be prevented from entering the room 

Surfaces 

  Waste/recycling storage rooms must have a smooth, durable ceiling, smooth concrete 
floor at least 75mm thick and smooth concrete or cement rendered walls. The floor/wall 
intersections must be coved. All internal surfaces must be light coloured.  

Doors 

 
Doors to waste/recycling rooms must be self-closing. If a roller door is to be used, there 
must be a sign adjacent to the door on the outside of the room which indicates that the 
door is to remain closed at all times when not in use. All doors are to be openable from 
both  inside  and  outside the  room.  Doors  need to  be  wide  enough  to  allow  bins  to  be 
moved in and out of the storage room. 

Ventilation 

  Waste/recycling storage rooms should be naturally ventilated by ventilation openings or 
mechanically  ventilated  by  a  system  which  is  isolated  from  mechanical  ventilation 
systems servicing any other part of the building. 

Services 

 
 
The  waste/storage  rooms  must  be  serviced  by  water  from  a  tap  located  within  the 
room. Residential developments must have a tap supplying cold water. Non-residential 
developments  the  tap  must  provide  hot  and  cold  water  through  a  centralised  mixing 
valve. The tap must be protected from the waste containers and must be located in a 
position  which  is  easily  accessible  when  the  storage  room  is  filled  with  waste 
containers. 

The  floor  must  be  graded  to  direct  any  water  to  a  Sydney  Water  approved  drainage 
connection located within the storage room 

  Waste/recycling  storage  rooms  must  be  serviced  by  artificial  lighting  which  can  be 

operated from within the room. 

Signage 

  Waste/recycling storage rooms must include signage which clearly describes the types 
of  materials  which  can  be  deposited  into  recycling  bins,  general  waste  bins  and 
greenwaste bins. 

Management 

 
The  waste/recycling  bins  must  be  cleaned  and  maintained  regularly.  Waste/recycling 
containers  must  be  washed  in  an  area  which  drains  to  a  Sydney  Water  approved 
drainage connection. 

303 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Example of a waste/recycling storage room for a residential flat building containing six dwellings. 

Tap with hose fitting 

240L green 
waste bin 

240L green 
waste bin 

Coved floor/wall intersections 

240L general 
waste bin 

240L recycling 
bin 

Internal walls; smooth concrete or 
cement rendered, light in colour 

240L general 
waste bin 

240L recycling 
bin 

240L general 
waste bin 

240L recycling 
bin 

Drain to Sydney Water approved 
drainage connection 

Storage room serviced by artificial 
lighting able to be operated from 
within the room 

Doors: durable, self-closing, able to 
be opened from the inside, wide 
enough to allow bins to be moved in 
and out 

8.1.3   Private Property Access Arrangements 

Council collects waste which is generated by residential land uses – including general waste, 
recycling and greenwaste. 

At a development, where Council collectors and/or vehicles are required to enter the site for 
the  purpose  of  collecting  waste,  Council  will  set certain  conditions  upon the  consent  of  the 
development. 

These conditions usually require the registration of an instrument (under sections 88B and E 
of the Conveyancing Act 1919) upon the title of the affected property. The instrument would 
set  out  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  easement,  positive  covenant  and  restriction  on  the 
use of the land. 

304 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The terms of the right of carriageway would generally be: 

1. 

full  and  free  right  for  the  Authority  Benefited,  its  employees,  contractors  and  every 
person authorised by it, to, at all times: 

(i) 

go,  pass,  re-pass  and  stand  upon  the  Lot  Burdened  for  the  purpose  of  the 
removal  of  general  waste,  recyclable  products  and  greenwaste  products  with  or 
without vehicles 

(ii)  enter  upon  the  Lot  Burdened  and  remain  there  for  a  reasonable  time  for  the 
purpose  of  the  removal  of  general  waste,  recyclable  materials  and  greenwaste 
products 

2. 

3. 

The owner of the Lot Burdened cannot make any claim against the Authority Benefited 
for  any  repairs  or  damage  caused  to  the  Lot  Burdened  as  a  result  of  the  Authority 
Benefited exercising its right as set out in clause (1). 

the  owner  of  the  Lot  Burdened  indemnifies  the  Authority  Benefited,  its  employees, 
contractors and persons authorised by it, against any future claim for damage or loss 
as a result of the Authority Benefited removing general waste, recyclable materials and 
greenwaste products from the Lot Burdened, except to the extent that such damage or 
loss is a result of the negligence of the Authority Benefited, its employees, contractors 
or persons authorised by it. 

8.1.4 

 Garbage Chutes 

Chute Design 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
garbage  chutes  must  be  constructed  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of  the 
Building Code of Australia (BCA) 

garbage chutes must be located and insulated in a manner which reduces noise impact 
upon dwellings 

chutes,  service  openings  and  charging  devices  must  be  constructed  of  material  (e.g. 
metal) which is smooth, durable, impervious, non-corrosive and fire resistant 

chutes, service openings and charging devices must be easy to clean 

chutes must be cylindrical and should be of at least 500mm 

there must not be any bends (or sections of reduced diameter) in the main shaft of the 
chute 

internal overlaps in the chute must follow the direction of the waste flow 

chutes  must  be  deposit  garbage  directly  into  a  bin  or  compactor  located  in  a 
waste/recycling storage room 

A cut-off device must be located at or near the base of the chute so that the bottom of 
the chute can be closed when the bin or compacting device at the bottom of the chute 
is withdrawn or being replaced. 

The upper end of a chute should extend above the roof line of the building 

The  upper  end  of  a  chute  should  be  weather  protected  in  a  manner  which  doesn’t 
impede the upward movement of air out of the chute. 

Service Room Design 

 
 
The  service  opening  (for  depositing  waste  into  the  main  chute)  on  each  floor  of  the 
building must be located in a dedicated service room 

The charging device for each service opening must be self closing and must not project 
into the main chute 

305 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Branches connecting service openings to the main chute are to be no more than 1m in 
length 

Each  service  room  must  include  containers  for  the  storage  of  recyclable  materials. 
Signage regarding the materials which can be recycled should be displayed near these 
containers 

Each service room must be located for convenient access by users and must be well 
ventilated and well lit. 

The floors, walls and ceilings of service rooms must be finished with smooth, durable 
materials which are easily cleaned 

Service  rooms  must  include  signage  which  clearly  describes  the  types  of  materials 
which can be deposited into the garbage chute and the types of materials which should 
be deposited into recycling bins 

Management 

 
 
 
Garbage chutes are not to be used for the disposal of recyclable materials. Signage to 
this effect should be displayed near service openings. 

Regular  maintenance  and  cleaning  of  garbage  chutes  and  any  associated  service 
rooms, service openings and charging devices 

Arrangements must be in place for the regular transferral of recyclable materials (which 
are stored in service rooms) to main waste/recycling storage room. 

Example of a garbage chute system 

Diagram:  Better  Practice  Guide  for  Waste  Management  in  Multi-Unit  Dwellings,  Resource 
NSW, 2002. 

306 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Waste Compactors 

 
 
 
The  installation  of  waste  compaction  equipment  would  not  normally  result  in  a 
reduction  in  the  amount  of  space  which  is  required  to  be  provided  for  the  storage  of 
waste/recycling bins 

Compactors  are  used  to  compress  waste  (and/or  recyclable  material)  so  that  its 
volume is reduced. The compacted waste is then deposited into collection containers. 
The  compaction  ratio  is  typically  set  at  around  2:1  (so  that  after  the  waste  has  been 
compacted it occupies approximately half as much space as it did before compaction). 
Higher compaction ratios are typically not used as they can result in overly heavy bins. 
Compactors usually deposit waste directly into a bin. 

Compactors are useful for the mixed garbage, cardboard/paper and plastic/aluminium 
containers.  They  are  less  useful  for  steel  and  should  not  be  used  for  glass. 
Compactors  require  regular  maintenance.  Those  systems  fed  from  a  chute  can  be 
prone  to  blockages  or  failure  of  the  electronic  device,  which  can  result  in  garbage 
overflowing or backing up the chute.  

8.1.5  Commercial/Industrial Waste/Recycling Storage Area 

This  appendix  applies 
development which include waste/recycling storage areas. 

to  applications 

for  commercial  development  and 

industrial 

Building Code of Australia 

  Waste/recycling  storage  areas  must  be  constructed 
requirements of the Building Code of Australia (BCA). 

in  accordance  with 

the 

Location and Appearance 

  Waste/recycling  storage  areas  must  be  integrated  into  the  design  of  the  overall 
development. Materials and finishes which are visible from outside should be similar in 
style and quality to the external materials used in the rest of the development. 

  Waste/recycling  storage  areas  must  be  located  and  designed  in  a  manner  which 
reduces adverse impacts on neighbouring properties and the streetscape. The location 
and design of the areas should minimise adverse impacts associated with: 

i. 

ii. 

Proximity of the area to dwellings 

Visibility of the area 

iii.  Noise generated by any equipment located within the area 

iv.  Noise generated by the movement of bins into and out of the area 

v.  Noise generated by collection vehicles accessing the site 

vi.  Odours emanating from the area 

Size 

  Waste/recycling  storage  rooms/areas  must  be  of  adequate  size  to  accommodate  all 

waste and recycling bins associated with the development 

  Waste/recycling storage areas must be able to accommodate separate general waste 
bins and recycling bins which are of sufficient volume to contain the quantity of waste 
generated (at the rate described). 

307 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Layout 

 
The  storage  room/areas  floors  and  any  associated  access  ways  must  be  sufficiently 
level  so  that  access  for  the  emptying  of  containers  can  occur  in  accordance  with 
WorkCover NSW occupational health and safety requirements. 

  Within  waste/recycling  storage  rooms  containers  used  for  storage  of  recyclable 
materials should be kept separate from (but close to) general waste containers, so that 
the potential for contamination of recyclable materials is minimised. 

Access: Waste/Recycling 

 
 
 
The development must be designed to allow for access by collection vehicles used by 
the  nominated  waste  contractor.  Where  possible  the  site  must  be  designed  to  allow 
collection vehicles to enter and exit the site in a forward direction and so that collection 
vehicles do not impede general access to, within or from the site. Access driveways to 
be used by collection vehicles must be of sufficient strength to support such vehicles. 

Arrangements for the purpose of emptying waste/recycling storage containers must be 
compatible with the operation of any other loading/unloading facilities on-site. 

Access for the purpose of emptying waste/recycling storage containers must be able to 
occur 
in  accordance  with  WorkCover  NSW  occupational  health  and  safety 
requirements. 

Access: General 

 
 
 
In commercial development, public buildings and industrial development, there must be 
convenient  access  from  each  tenancy  to  the  waste/recycling  storage  areas.  There 
must  be  step-free  access  between  the  point  at  which  bins  are  collected/emptied  and 
the waste/recycling storage areas 

The waste/recycling storage area is not to be accessible to the general public. 

Vermin must be prevented from entering the waste/recycling storage area 

Surfaces 

  Waste/recycling storage area must have a smooth, durable floor and must be enclosed 
with durable walls/fences which extend to the height of any containers which are kept 
within. 

Doors/Gates 

 
Doors/gates to  waste/recycling  storage  areas must  be  durable. There must  be  a sign 
adjacent to the door/gate  which  indicates that the door/gate is to remain closed at all 
times when not in use. All doors/gates are to be openable from both inside and outside 
the storage area and must be wide enough to allow the bins to be moved in and out. 

Services 

  Waste/recycling  areas  must  be  serviced  by  hot  and  cold  water  provided  through  a 
centralised  mixing  valve.  The  tap  must  be  protected  from  the  waste  containers  and 
must  be  located  in  a  position  which  is  easily  accessible  when  the  area  is  filled  with 
waste containers. 

 
The  floor  must  be  graded  so  that  any  water  is  directed  to  Sydney  Water  approved 
drainage connection located upon the site. 

308 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signage 

  Waste/recycling storage areas must include signage which clearly describes the types 
of materials which can be deposited into recycling bins and general garbage bins. 

Management 

 
Regular  maintenance  and  cleaning  of  waste/recycling  storage  areas. Waste/recycling 
containers must only be washed in an area which drains to a Sydney Water approved 
drainage connection. 

8.1.6 

 Waste/Recycling Generation Rates 

Type of Premises  
Backpackers’ accommodation 

Waste Generation 
40L /occupant space/week 

Recycling Generation 
20L /occupant space/week 

Boarding house 
Guest house 

Food premises: 
Butcher 
Delicatessen 
Fish shop 
Greengrocer 
Restaurant, Café 
Supermarket 
Takeaway food shop 

60L /occupant space/week 

20L /occupant space/week 

80L /100 sqm floor area/day 
80L /100 sqm floor area/day 
80L /100 sqm floor area/day 
240L /100 sqm floor area/day 
10L /1.5 sqm floor area/day 
240L /100 sqm floor area/day 
80L /100 sqm floor area/day 

Variable 
Variable 
Variable 
120L /100 sqm floor area/day 
2L /1.5 sqm floor area/day 
240L /100 sqm floor area/day 
Variable 

Hairdresser, Beauty salon 

60L /100 sqm floor area/day 

Variable 

Hotel  
Licensed club 
Motel 

Offices 

5L /bed space/day 
50L /100 sqm bar area/day 
10L /1.5 sqm dining area/day 

1L/bed space/day 
50L /100 sqm bar area/day 
50L /100 sqm dining area/day 

50L /100 sqm floor area/day 

10L /100 sqm bar area/day 

Retail (other than food premises): 
Shop less than 100 sqm floor area 
Shop greater than 100 sqm floor area 

50L /100 sqm floor area/day 
50L/100 sqm floor area/day 

25L /100 sqm floor area/day 
50L/100 sqm floor area/day 

Showroom 

40L /100 sqm floor area/day 

10L /100 sqm floor area/day 

309 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.2 

Streets and Sites Subject to Building Appearance and Streetscape 
Provisions (Relates to Section 4.5)  

310 

 
 
8.3 

Child Care Centres (Relates to Section 5.2) 

8.3.1 

 Definitions 

This  BDCP  Part  adopts  the  Standard  Instrument  Template  definitions  except  where  varied 
by or added to in this Appendix.  

Care and Protection Act means the Children and Young Persons (Care and Protection) Act 
1998 No. 157.  

Babies / Toddlers means children up to and including 3 years of age.  

Best Practice Guidelines means the Best Practice Guidelines in Early Childhood Physical 
Environments (Prue Walsh, Play Environment Consultant and the Department of Community 
Services, October 1998).  

Child  Accessible  Areas  mean  the  areas  within  a  Child  Care  Centre  occupied  by  children 
attending  the  Centre  or  areas  that  a  child  attending  the  Centre  will  be  physically  able  to 
access without adult assistance.  

Child Care Centre has the same meaning as the definition in the Standard Instrument.  

Children's Service has the same meaning as in the Care and Protection Act.  

Family Day-Care Children's Services has the same meaning as in the Care and Protection 
Act.  

Home-Based  Children's  Services  has  the  same  meaning  as  in  the  Care  and  Protection 
Act.  

Mobile Children's Services has the same meaning as in the Care and Protection Act.  

Regulation means the Children’s Services Regulation 2004.  

Restricted premises has the same meaning as the definition in the Standard Instrument.  

State  Road/classified  road  has  the  same  meaning  as  in  the  Road  Hierarchy  Plan  (see 
Appendix 8.4).  

Unencumbered indoor play space means indoor play space excluding items such as any 
passage way or thoroughfare, door swing areas, kitchen, cot rooms, toilet or shower areas 
located  in  the  building  or  any  other  facility  such  as  cupboards  and  areas  set  aside  as 
referred to in subclause (1)’  
Subclause (1) relates to the following areas:  

 
 
 
a  room  or  an  area  that  is  used  for  administration  of  the  service  and  for  private 
consultation between staff and parents, and  
a  room  or  an  area,  located  away  from  the  areas  used  by  children,  that  is  used  for 
respite of staff, and  
a room or an area that is used only for sleeping for children under 2 years of age.  

8.3.2 

 Checklist for Child Care Centre Development Applications  

Statement of intention to obtain a licence from the applicable State Government agency.  

Compliance matrix of the proposal in terms of the best practice criteria set down in the Best 
Practice Guideline  

311 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certification from the manufacturer that all softfall materials comply with AS /NZS 4422  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Six sets of plans at 1:100 scale or larger, including:  
- 
- 

One set of A3 drawings  
Two sets of coloured plans to indicate alterations and/or additions  
Two sets of A4 size plans for notification  
Site Analysis Plan  

- 
- 
Survey Plan with contours, existing trees and structures and adjoining buildings being 
identified, for new developments 

Child Care Centre Operational Plan of Management, which includes:  

- 

- 
- 

- 

A  statement  indicating  the  maximum  number  of  children  to  be  attending,  the 
maximum number of babies/toddlers to be catered for and staff numbers  
A statement indicating the maximum area of the Child Care Centre 
A statement indicating the proposed hours of operation of the Child Care Centre, 
including times of use of the outside playground 
Shadow diagrams as at 9am and 3pm on June 21 for new developments of two 
storeys or more 

Landscape  Plans  by  a  suitably  qualified  professional  for  any  Child  Care  Centre  site 
which  adjoins  residential  zoned  land,  or  where  required  by  this  BDCP  Part  or 
requested by Council  

Statement of Environmental Effects to accompany applications  

3D scale architectural model for all new developments of two storeys or more  

Two sets of Building Specifications (including materials used) for new building work 

Stormwater  Drainage  Concept  Plans  in  accordance  with  Council’s  Stormwater 
Management Code 

Energy saving design and devices to be utilised to demonstrate that adequate energy 
efficiency measures have been incorporated into the design.  

Heritage Impact Statement for all sites:  

- 

- 
- 

on which a heritage item is situated, or  
adjacent to or within the vicinity of land on which a heritage item is situated, or  
within a heritage conservation area.  

Traffic Impact Statement including any initiatives intended to alleviate traffic impacts on 
the  local  area,  especially  during  peak  times.  The  study  should  provide  details  of  the 
road  carriageway  width  adjacent  to  the  site,  as  well  as  details  of  traffic  volumes  and 
existing kerb-side parking demand for a typical design weekday during the peak arrival 
and departure times of children associated with the proposed child care facility.  

A Waste Management Plan  

Fire  Safety  and  Evacuation  Plan  measures  to  be  provided  prior  to  the  issue  of  an 
Occupation Certificate  

Access and facilities for persons with a disability to be provided.  

312 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acoustic  Report,  by  a  suitably  qualified  professional  for  any  Child  Care  Centre  site 
which  adjoins  residential  zoned  land,  or  where  required  by  this  BDCP  Part  or 
requested by Council.  

Air Quality Report, by a suitably qualified professional, for any Child Care Centre that 
is to be located on a classified road.  

Land Contamination Assessment as requested by Council.  

As  the  applicant,  please  ‘check-off’  this  list  and  attach  it  to  your  Development 
Application plus include a checklist of Clauses 30-50 of the Regulation to demonstrate 
compliance with the requirements identified.  

8.3.3   Site Analysis Plan Requirements  

(a)   The  location  of  any  proposed  buildings  or  works (including  extensions  or  additions  to 
existing  buildings  or  works)  in  relation  to  the  land's  boundaries  and  adjoining 
development,  

(b)   Floor  plans  of  any  proposed  buildings  showing  layout,  partitioning,  room  sizes  and 

intended uses of each part of the building,  

(c)   Elevations  and  sections  showing  proposed  external  finishes  and  heights  of  any 

proposed buildings,  

(d)   Proposed finished levels of the land in relation to existing and proposed buildings and 

roads,  

(e)   Proposed  parking  arrangements,  entry  and  exit  points  for  vehicles,  and  provision  for 

movement of vehicles within the site (including dimensions where appropriate),  

(f)   Proposed landscaping and treatment of the land (indicating plant types and their height 

and maturity),  

(g)   The  location  of  the  open  play  area,  quiet  play  area,  active  play  area  and,  if  relevant, 

baby/ toddler play area within the playground,  

(h)   The location of equipment and facilities within the playground,  

(i)   Details  of  boundary  fencing  to  adjoining  properties  (including  any  proposed  acoustic 

screens if relevant),  

(j)   Proposed methods of draining the land,  

(k)   The location, boundary dimensions, site area and north point of the land,  

(l)   Existing vegetation and trees on the land,  

(m)   The location and uses of existing buildings on the land,  

(n)   Existing levels of the land in relation to buildings and roads, and  

(o)   The location and uses of buildings on sites adjoining the land.  

313 

 
 
 
 
 
 
8.4 

Road Hierarchy Plan (Relates to Section 5.2) 

314 

 
 
8.5 

Appian Way – Assessment of Significance (Relates to Section 4.7) 

The  Conservation  Area  is  one  of  the  finest  examples  of  intact  Federation  Queen  Anne 
housing and streetscape, listed by the National Trust of Australia (NSW) as:  

“Probably  the  finest  Edwardian  bungalow  precinct  in  Sydney.  By  virtue  of  its  architectural 
cohesiveness,  idyllic  landscaped  environment  of  street  and  allotment  alike  with  community 
related sports reserve, this development sets a high standard by today’s criteria”. (National 
Trust, 1977)  

Figure 4: A typical view in the Appian Way. 

Criterion 1: Historical Significance  

It is a personal and individual interpretation of the architectural styles of the early 1900’s by 
George Hoskins and builder/designer William Richards.  

Suggested  early  precedents  include  1869  Emery  Childs’  Riverside  (1600  acres)  and 
residential  suburbs  in  Chicago  Illinois  by  Frederick  Law  Olmstead  and  Calvent  Vaux,  with 
informally  curved  roads,  tree  lined  streets  and  links  to  open  spaces.  Concepts  of  physical 
and social qualities. Olmstead referred to ‘Happy tranquillity’.  

The Hoskins Estate was much more modest than Riverside but the similarities are clear.  
Other possible influences could have been the first Garden Suburbs in England at Bedford 
Park 1876 and in Bournemouth.  

Ebenezer  Howard  published  a  book  “Garden  Cities  for  tomorrow”  in  1897  promoting 
integration of recreational and residential areas. Hoskins inclusion of a recreational area may 
be an idea taken from the Haberfield Estate development of R. Stanton with its provision of 
recreational facilities including lawns and a community meeting pavilion.  

There was no regulation regarding sub-divisions in NSW until 1906.  

Although William  Richards  had  migrated  from  England  the  designs  in  the  Appian  Way  are 
said to be based mainly on local Australian Architecture.  

Criterion 2: Aesthetic Significance  

The area is a rare Federation Queen Anne (sometimes referred to as Edwardian Bungalow) 
precinct of architectural and constructional excellence.  

315 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It  represents  an  almost  intact,  complete  Federation  streetscape  (though  not  strictly  in 
Federation  style)  and  is  a  unique  part  of  the  development  of  Sydney  with  exceptionally 
generous landscaped settings of high quality.  

Figure 5: The property names of the Hoskins Estate 

The  ideas  that  influenced  Richards’  design  of  Hoskins  Estate  Houses  were  those  of  the 
Federation Queen Anne Style popular from the early 1890s to the start of World War One. 
The  essential  character  the  houses  of  the  estate  are  related  to  intersecting  gabled  roofs, 
verandahs  integrated  with  the  house  under  the  same  roofline  and  turned  timber  verandah 
posts.  

Generally,  the  houses  are  of  complex,  asymmetrical  form,  being  dominated  by  extensive 
verandahs and prominent, irregular rooflines.  

The  verandahs  often  have  a  corner  emphasis  and  as  the  houses  are  placed  on  wide 
allotments, they tend to feature carefully designed and executed side elevations as well as 
street façades.  

Some  roofs  incorporate  small  ornamental  turrets.  The  square  turrets  of  “Vallambrosa”, 
“Capri” and “Talofa” were positioned above entrance halls and the polygonal turret of “Alba 
Longa” visually reinforces the shape of the verandah below. The only functional turret is at 
“Verona”, where the turret encloses a small room.  

The  interior  of  the  houses  are  large  with  many  rooms  and  involved  plans  based 
predominantly  on  the  central  hallway  concept,  which  had  long  been  the  traditional 
arrangement in house planning. Consequently, all the rooms are clearly defined and linked 
by corridors, rather than adopting open living spaces.  

The  Appian  Way  houses  were  designed  so  that  their  residents  would  be  able  to  view  the 
recreation ground from their front verandahs.  

316 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The allotments within Hoskins Estate are generally large, and consequently the gardens are 
extensive. The width of some allotments has resulted in gardens that virtually surround the 
houses on all sides, and the houses do not encroach closer than at least three metres to the 
boundaries of their allotments.  

The houses have been positioned so that substantial landscaping was provided at both front 
and rear of the building.  

The gardens of the Federation period possessed an individual character and their essence 
was  a  reliance  on  expanses  of  trim  lawns  and  isolated  individual  shade  trees  and  shrubs 
scattered  in  small  informal  beds.  Rows  of  small  shrubs  were  planted  in  narrow  beds 
surrounding the houses and also along the borders of the allotments.  

The  trees  and  shrubs  used  in  the  gardens  have  changed  over  the  years,  but  the  original 
plantings were probably a combination of Australian natives and exotic species.  

“Mounterey” has a garden dominated by small palms. In general, Federation gardens tended 
to use shrubs rather than massed flowerbeds.  

Figure 6: Low picket fences and many shrubs in front gardens characterise the Appian Way Conservation Area. 

Previously, the road extended to the footpath providing a more informal edge.  

The lots are large and houses are set well back, hence there are large front gardens. Today, 
these have neat lawns, with shrubs placed to complement the houses, e.g. tall thin trees in 
front, such as pines, with larger shrubs such as hydrangea ‘softening’ the buildings.  

Some gardens have rose beds along the front fences and driveways. The houses originally 
had  shaped  flowerbeds,  as  evident  from  old  photographs.  These  have  been  replaced  with 
lawn. The gardens have their boundaries defined by fences, paths and driveways. On larger 
blocks, these are curved and extend up to the house.  

Within the gardens were features such as small summerhouses and lattice screens. Several 
gardens  included  private  tennis  courts  such  as  at  “Colonna”  and  “Amalfi”.  The  overall 
treatment of the gardens indicates that the outdoor environment was an essential part of a 
resident’s lifestyle.  
Another aspect in the landscaping of the estate is the treatment of the roads and recreation 
area.  The  edges  of  the  Appian  Way  were  informal  because  the  trees  grew  between  the 
pavement kerb and the road.  

317 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thus  a  soft  line  of  soil,  gravel,  grasses  and  fallen  leaves  bordered  the  road.  This  situation 
remains around the recreation area, but on the opposite side the kerb has been moved out 
past  the  trees,  creating a  hard  edge. The  street  trees  are  box  brush,  which  are  part  of  the 
original plantings.  

All  the  fences  on  the  estate  were  timber  pickets,  and  the  many  that  remain  indicate  that 
there was considerable diversity in the detailing of the fences.  

The  recreation  area  was  essentially  mown  and  rolled  grass  courts,  but  some  shrubs  were 
planted  around  the  pavilion.  The  pavilion  itself  is  of  timber  and  iron  roof  construction  and 
includes dressing rooms and an open verandah with a bench for participants and spectators 
to rest or shelter.  

Criterion 3: Research Significance  

The  area  comprises  a  very  unusual  and  discrete  form  of  garden  suburb  incorporating  the 
ideas  of  the  builder  and  owner,  in  particular  the  idea  of  leasing  the  houses  to  maintain 
control over the area. It is rare because no two allotments are the same shape or size, with 
complex free standing designs quite different from the average urban street.  

Criterion 4: Social Significance  

It  was  the  product  of the  vision  and  desire  of  George  Hoskins  to  create  an  ideal  suburban 
environment.  

The Conservation Area is rare because of its unique form, which is centred on a social ideal 
celebrated in the form of the central recreational area and facility. The estate and its houses 
provide an insight into both the period of its development and the people who lived in it.  

Again a probable precedent was at Riverside where Olmstead and Vaux sought to provide a 
higher quality social environment.  

The  streetscape  was  designed  ‘to  suggest  and  imply  leisure  contemplativeness  and  happy 
tranquillity’, ‘a character of informal village greens, commons and playgrounds’.  

In  the  19th  century,  leased  accommodation  was  usually  at  the  low  end  of  the  market  with 
small houses or terraces. Leasing houses on the Appian Way was unusual, as the houses 
were large in size and number.  

Hoskins  also,  unusually,  maintained  a  continuous  involvement  in  the  estate.  A  recreation 
reserve was created in the middle of the Appian Way, with the subdivision. It was originally a 
croquet  green,  lawn  bowling  green  and  lawn  tennis  court,  to  provide  opportunities  for 
recreation of all ages. In 1909 the area became 3 tennis courts. A registered company was 
formed I 1913 – the Appian Way Recreation Club Limited – with the shares subscribed for by 
residents  of  the  estate  with  George  Hoskins,  a  resident,  the  major  shareholder  and 
controller. The Recreation Club leased the recreation area to the Appian Way Tennis Club.  

In 1929, the Hoskins’ Estate Company decided to sell the recreation area. However, a local 
resident formed a new company and residents subscribed to shares, although today not all 
shareholders are residents.  

Statement of Significance  

A rare Edwardian ‘garden city’ bungalow precinct with excellent Federation Queen Anne and 
at  least  one  Federation  Arts  and  Crafts  architectural  and  landscape  detail,  largely  intact 
streetscape, around an unusual and beautifully landscaped oval containing a resident-owned 
recreational and sporting facility.  

318 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  design  and  construction  of  the  estate  was  based  on  a  vision  of  suburban  utopia  of  its 
owner George Hoskins who was instrumental in developing the steel industry in NSW.  

The  concept for the  design  was  based  on  ‘Garden  City’  ideas  being  developed  in  England 
and the USA at the time, for example, ‘Riverside’ in Chicago by Frederick Law Olmstead and 
Vaux  and  “Bedford  Park”,  “Port  Sunlight”  and  “Letchworth”  in  England  designed  by  Barry 
Parker and Raymond Unwin springing from the ‘Picturesque Landscaping Movement’ of the 
18th Century in England.  

References  
The development of the Hoskins Estate Burwood. P. Clements. C19.101 Advanced Study Report. Department of 
Architecture, University of Sydney. 1978.  

8.6 

Malvern Hill – Assessment of Significance (Relates to Section 4.7) 

The  land  around  Croydon  Station  was  originally  part  of  two  estates  owned  by  Samuel 
Dickenson (The Hall) and Captain G A Murray (The Lea). Both men died in the early 1900s 
and the land was sold to the Intercolonial Land Investment & Building Company Limited, a 
prominent development company at the time.  

Croydon  was  a  desirable  area  for  a  residential  subdivision,  designed  for  the  middle  class. 
There  was  a  railway  service  (Croydon  Station  had  opened  in  1875)  and  a  steam  tram 
operated  along  Liverpool  Road.  Educational,  religious  and  hospital  services  were  located 
nearby. This, in combination with close proximity to the city and a hill top location, enabled 
the area to compete favourably with the attractions of land along the north shore line.  

The  Malvern  Hill  Estate  was  formed  in  the  early  1900s  when  the  two  large  estates  were 
subdivided. A “model” suburb was developed of wide streets, with drainage incorporated. A 
covenant was placed on the subdivision, requiring all buildings to be of brick and stone with 
slate or terracotta tile roofs, and allowing no semi-detached or terrace houses. The streets 
were  planted  with  trees popular  in  the period,  such  as  palms. The  “garden  suburb”  idea of 
leafy streets and gardens within a self-contained estate was followed.  

The  Malvern  Hill  Estate  is  of  special  importance  in  the  history  of  Burwood.  Along  with  the 
Appian  Way,  it  is  a  key  part  of  what  distinguishes  Burwood  for  the  surrounding  area. 
Possessing some affinities with Haberfield, it is a fine and highly intact Federation/California 
Bungalow area with consistent and cohesive streetscapes of substantial detached housing. 
Malvern Hill has connections with numerous important Sydney people, as set out below.  
The  design  of  new  suburbs  was  influenced  by  the  increased  interest  in  Town  Planning. 
British concepts such as the Garden Suburb Movement and “model” suburbs were translated 
into the Australian Garden Suburb.  

The Garden Suburb is characterised by special  areas for residential and commercial uses, 
the erection of freestanding residences with gardens, wide tree-lined streets and parks and 
reserves.  Rear  lanes  and  right-of-ways  became  redundant  with  the  introduction  of  the 
sewerage system and the provision of side access between dwellings. The new estates were 
designed to contrast to the “slums” of terrace housing in the city.  

Other  examples  of  garden  suburbs  include  Haberfield,  Daceyville  and  Cremorne.  Parts  of 
Burwood, for example, the Appian Way, were also influenced by these ideas.  

The houses in Malvern Hill were built from 1909 to the late 1920s. The dominant styles are 
Federation and California Bungalow. A variety of house designs exist, as Federation was a 
nationalistic  interpretation  by  individual  architects  and  builders,  often  with  a  combination  of 
elements from previous historical periods and styles.  

319 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  Federation  style  houses  are  characterised  by  red  and  purple-brown  or  red-brown 
brickwork,  often  highlighted  with  contrasting  darker  blue  bricks,  moulded  bricks  and  tuck-
pointing,  with  sandstone  base.  Bay  windows  and  timber  column  supported  verandah  often 
featured shingles and timber framework.  

Steeply pitched roofs of unglazed terracotta Marseilles tiles or slate were most common and 
usually incorporated ornamental terracotta ridge cappings, complex hipped roofs and gables 
with decorative finials and tall chimneys.  

Figure 4: A good example of a Federation style house 

Criterion 1: Historical Significance  

By  1915,  the  increasing  influence  of  American  architecture  was  becoming  evident  in 
domestic  architecture  with  the  introduction  of  the  California  Bungalow  style.  The  newer 
California  Bungalow  style  was  characterised  by  low-pitched  roofs  with  squat  chimneys  and 
wide  overhanging  eaves,  simple  bold  forms,  dark  brick  and  roughcast  walls  and  massive 
brick or stone pylons supporting a deep porch.  

In turn Art Nouveau motifs appear in Bungalow fretwork, leadlights of the windows and tile 
patterns as abstracted plant designs. In addition, Australian symbols were sometimes found 
in details such as leadlight windows depicting kookaburras, waratahs, etc.  

In 1909, the Sydney based surveying firm Atchison & Schleicher were engaged to create a 
61-acre  (24.6-hectare)  subdivision.  The  estate  was  developed  under  the  provisions  of  the 
newly introduced Local Government Act, 1906. This set standards that resulted in wide tree-
lined streets and large and well-drained building allotments.  

320 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Post Office (opened 1913) was the first building in The Strand.  Development continued 
until 1920.  

  The subdivisions of Malvern Hill were in these sections (refer to Figure 5):  

  The Strand and Malvern Avenue/Dickinson Avenue: April 1909  

  Malvern Avenue/Chelmsford Avenue/Lea Street/David Street: September 1909  

  Murray Street (between The Strand and Brady Street): May 1911  

  Murray Street (from Brady Street to Tahlee Street) and Tahlee Street: March 1912  

  Fitzroy Street: September 1917  

The Strand 

The  Strand  shopping  centre,  developed  between  1913  and  1920,  also  contributes  to  the 
Federation  character  of  the  area.  It  was  designed  as  a  broad  and  elegant  shopping  street 
and promenade leading to the residential areas.  

The shops  in The  Strand  developed  from  1913,  starting  on  the  western  side  (completed  in 
1913)  with  no  shops  on  the  eastern  side  until  1917  (being  nos.  12-26),  the  balance 
completed  by  1929.  Shop  façades  are  modulated,  with  repetition  of  structural  bays  and 
parapets, unified by a suspended awning at the same height. Above the awning are simple 
brick  façades,  with  recessed  balconies  (behind  semi-circular  brick  arches)  and/or  panel 
windows.  Usually,  the  shops  are  in  groups  of  three  with  slight  variations  in  detailing  of 
parapets  etc.,  between  each  group.  Below  the  awning  the  original  shop  front  consists  of  a 
large  display  window,  timber  surrounds  with  decorative  glass  toplight  and  glazed-ceramic 
tiles (green, crimson, burnt gold with Art Nouveau motifs). The entrance was generally to one 
side  with  mosaic  tiling  to  the  porch.  Later  shops  featured  brass  surrounds  and  some 
displayed recessed central door entries.  

Criterion 2: Aesthetic Significance 

A feature  of the  estate  that  contributes  to  its  cohesive  nature  was  that a  building  covenant 
was stipulated. All residences had to be detached houses built of brick or stone. Roofs were 
to be slate, shingles or terracotta tiles. No more than one dwelling per lot was allowed. The 
buildings other than the shops could be no closer than 20 feet (6 metres) to the street.  

Gas mains and sewerage were provided to every allotment.  

The allotments were sold by auction from 1909. By the 1920s, the residential character was 
established. The  houses  range from  cottages  to larger  cottage-villas,  to  two  storey  houses 
built  on  double  blocks.  The  houses  were  built  by  private  owners  and  speculative  builders. 
The  result  is  a  variety  of  house  styles  and  sizes  in  Federation  and  California  Bungalow 
forms.  

The  Malvern  Hill  Estate  in  Croydon  lies  approximately  11  kilometres  west  of  the  Sydney 
Central  Business  District.  The  extent  of  the  original  estate,  the  same  as  the  conservation 
area, covers approximately 23 hectares of land south-west of Croydon Railway Station.  

The dominant features in the Malvern Hill Estate are the wide roads, tree lined footpaths and 
cohesive  streetscapes  with  skyline  broken  by  Federation  and  California  Bungalow  style 
roofs, gables and chimney stacks on dwellings and an intact shopping strip.  

The topography of the area is gently sloping to flat. The land slopes downwards to the north, 
from Liverpool Road to Murray Street. David Street and Chelmsford Avenue run south-west 
to  north-east  down  the  slope  so  are,  in  effect,  on  the  side  of  Malvern  Hill.  The  slope  does 
create some variation in the views and townscape, but a “hill” in itself is not pronounced.  

321 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  alignment  of  Malvern  and  Dickinson  Avenues  and  The  Strand  is  an  example  of  an 
interesting road form, of curved rather than the traditional gridiron street pattern. The Strand 
maintains the purpose of a formal avenue, which leads to the residential streets.  

The  skyline  is  dominated  by  street  trees  and  the  features  of  the  houses  such  as  chimney 
stacks, gables, ridge capping and rooftops of the two storey houses.  

Malvern  Hill  is  generally  a  residential  area  with  a  shopping  centre  adjacent  to  Croydon 
Railway Station. The area is described by the National Trust of Australia (NSW) as:  

“a  distinctive,  highly  cohesive  area  of  good  quality  Federation  period  houses  and  shops, 
street  planning  and  planting  in  streets  and  gardens.  The  area  is  significant  as  an  early 
planned ‘model suburb’ and is one of the first examples of the successful application of local 
government development controls”. 

322 

 
 
 
 
Figure 5: Subdivisions of the Malvern Hill Estate 

The National Trust’s conservation area is larger and extends across the eastern boundary of 
the Burwood LGA (Dickinson Avenue) into the Ashfield LGA. However, about 90 per cent of 
the conservation area lies in Burwood.  

323 

 
 
 
 
The  street  trees,  especially  those  associated  with  the  Federation  period,  contribute  to  the 
character  of  the  area.  Examples  of  the  original  plantings  are  found  in  Lea  Street  and 
Chelmsford Avenue (Figure 3).  

In  Lea  Street,  the  palms  Phoenix  Canariensis  (Canary  Palms)  line  the  road.  Burwood 
Council,  in  1912,  pioneered  the  planting  of  the  trees  as  other  varieties  such  as  Camphor 
Laurels,  interfered  with  electricity  wires.  Originally  the  palms  were  located  on  the roadway, 
as was commonly seen around the Burwood and Ashfield areas.  

The decision to initially prepare a draft LEP was based on:  

Malvern  Hill  is  recognised  by  the  National Trust of  Australia  (NSW)  as  a  “classified”  Urban 
Conservation Area and the houses in  Malvern Avenue, Numbers 3-21 and 2-26 (excluding 
Numbers 11A and 6) form part of the Malvern Avenue Precinct.  

Croydon Post Office and number 1 The Strand are also separately listed.  

Representations made to Council by the Burwood and District Historical Society expressing 
concern for the need to ensure permanent protection of this Federation precinct.  

The  land  around  Croydon  Station  was  originally  part  of  two  estates  owned  by  Samuel 
Dickenson (The Hall) and Captain G A Murray (The Lea). Both men died in the early 1900s 
and the land was sold to the Intercolonial Land Investment & Building Company Limited, a 
prominent development company at the time.  

Croydon  was  a  desirable  area  for  a  residential  subdivision,  designed  for  the  middle  class. 
There  was  a  railway  service  (Croydon  Station  had  opened  in  1875)  and  a  steam  tram 
operated  along  Liverpool  Road.  Educational,  religious  and  hospital  services  were  located 
nearby. This, in combination with close proximity to the city and a hill top location, enabled 
the area to compete favourably with the attractions of land along the north shore line.  

The  Malvern  Hill  Estate  was  formed  in  the  early  1900s  when  the  two  large  estates  were 
subdivided. A “model” suburb was developed of wide streets, with drainage incorporated. A 
covenant was placed on the subdivision, requiring all buildings to be of brick and stone with 
slate or terracotta tile roofs, and allowing no semi-detached or terrace houses. The streets 
were  planted  with  trees popular  in  the period,  such  as  palms. The  “garden  suburb”  idea of 
leafy streets and gardens within a self-contained estate was followed.  

The  Malvern  Hill  Estate  is  of  special  importance  in  the  history  of  Burwood.  Along  with  the 
Appian  Way,  it  is  a  key  part  of  what  distinguishes  Burwood  for  the  surrounding  area. 
Possessing some affinities with Haberfield, it is a fine and highly intact Federation/California 
Bungalow area with consistent and cohesive streetscapes of substantial detached housing. 
Malvern Hill has connections with numerous important Sydney people, as set out below.  

The  design  of  new  suburbs  was  influenced  by  the  increased  interest  in  Town  Planning. 
British concepts such as the Garden Suburb Movement and “model” suburbs were translated 
into the Australian Garden Suburb.  

The Garden Suburb is characterised by special  areas for residential and commercial uses, 
the erection of freestanding residences with gardens, wide tree-lined streets and parks and 
reserves.  Rear  lanes  and  right-of-ways  became  redundant  with  the  introduction  of  the 
sewerage system and the provision of side access between dwellings. The new estates were 
designed to contrast to the “slums” of terrace housing in the city.  

Other  examples  of  garden  suburbs  include  Haberfield,  Daceyville  and  Cremorne.  Parts  of 
Burwood, for example, the Appian Way, were also influenced by these ideas.  

324 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The houses in Malvern Hill were built from 1909 to the late 1920s. The dominant styles are 
Federation and California Bungalow. A variety of house designs exist, as Federation was a 
nationalistic  interpretation  by  individual  architects  and  builders,  often  with  a  combination  of 
elements from previous historical periods and styles.  

The  Federation  style  houses  are  characterised  by  red  and  purple-brown  or  red-brown 
brickwork,  often  highlighted  with  contrasting  darker  blue  bricks,  moulded  bricks  and  tuck-
pointing, with sandstone base.  

Bay  windows  and  timber  column  supported  verandah  often  featured  shingles  and  timber 
framework.  Steeply  pitched  roofs  of  unglazed  terracotta  Marseilles  tiles  or  slate  were  most 
common  and  usually  incorporated  ornamental  terracotta  ridge  cappings,  complex  hipped 
roofs and gables with decorative finials and tall chimneys.  

A feature  of the  estate  that  contributes  to  its  cohesive  nature  was  that a  building  covenant 
was stipulated. All residences had to be detached houses built of brick or stone. Roofs were 
to be slate, shingles or terracotta tiles. No more than one dwelling per lot was allowed. The 
buildings other than the shops could be no closer than 20 feet (6 metres) to the street.  

Gas mains and sewerage were provided to every allotment.  

The allotments were sold by auction from 1909. By the 1920s, the residential character was 
established. The  houses  range from  cottages  to larger  cottage-villas,  to  two  storey  houses 
built  on  double  blocks.  The  houses  were  built  by  private  owners  and  speculative  builders. 
The  result  is  a  variety  of  house  styles  and  sizes  in  Federation  and  California  Bungalow 
forms.  

The  houses  in  Malvern  Hill  were  built  by  a  variety  of  architects  and  builders.  The  smaller, 
less elaborate houses in Murray Street, for example, would have been designed by builders, 
the larger cottages in Malvern and Dickinson Avenues, by architects as set out below. More 
detailed analysis of the work of these architects in Malvern Hill is covered in the late Phillip 
Clement’s study (“The Architecture of the Malvern Hill Estate”. 1981).  

The  most  significant  buildings  in  the  estate  are  the  large  and  elaborate  Federation  and 
Bungalow houses in  Malvern and Dickinson Avenues. Some of these have  individual merit 
and were mostly architect designed. The small builder-designed houses are meritorious as a 
group due to their cohesive character, rather than outstanding individual form.  

Architects and Builders  

The  houses  in  Malvern  Hill  were  built  by  a  variety  of  architects  and  builders.  The  smaller, 
less elaborate houses in Murray Street, for example, would have been designed by builders, 
the larger cottages in Malvern and Dickinson Avenues, by architects as set out below. More 
detailed analysis of the work of these architects in Malvern Hill is covered in the late Phillip 
Clement’s study (“The Architecture of the Malvern Hill Estate”. 1981).  

Building Character  

The  most  significant  buildings  in  the  estate  are  the  large  and  elaborate  Federation  and 
Bungalow houses in  Malvern and Dickinson Avenues. Some of these have  individual merit 
and were mostly architect designed. The small builder-designed houses are meritorious as a 
group due to their cohesive character, rather than outstanding individual form.  

Roofs  

In  Federation  houses,  the  roofs  are  in  complex  forms,  with  exposed  rafter  ends  and 
generally asymmetrical (Figure 6). 

325 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  original  decorations  included  terracotta  ridge  capping  and  ornaments.  As  specified  in 
the  building  covenant,  the  roofs  were  of  slate  or  terracotta  tiles.  In  bungalow  houses,  the 
roofs are lower pitched, less complex and often had exposed rafter ends. Gables and attic 
windows  are  features  of  some  buildings  in  the  area.  Chimneys  in  Federation  houses  are 
brick or partially roughcast, with brick strapping decoration: they are tall and thick, whereas 
chimneys on bungalow houses are more squat and massive.  

Bricks 

Figure 6: Asymmetrical roof forms 

In Malvern Hill, the bricks are dark brown-purplish in colour or light brown. Darker bricks are 
used as highlights. Other materials include sandstone, for example, No 22 Malvern Avenue - 
sandstone  verandah  supports.  Sandstone  is  also  used  beneath  bay  windows  and  as  a 
house base. Tuckpointing, or the filling in of brick joints with mortar for highlighting walls to 
the front elevation, was also popular.  

Verandahs  

Virtually all of the original houses in Malvern Hill have verandahs. In Federation style houses 
these are decorated with tessellated tiles and slate or marble edging, turned timber columns, 
timber railings and fretwork. The verandah was intended to be a useable outdoor space, an 
extension  of  the  garden  environment  into  the  house.  Bungalows  also  have  verandahs  but 
these have less timber decoration and are of a much larger scale.  

Windows  

The  windows  have  timber  frames  and  are  a  single  unit  or  in  banks  and  are  vertical  in 
proportion.  They  often  have  decorative  leadlight  panes,  with  art  nouveau  designs  and/or 
coloured panes of glass.  

Fences  

The front fences  in  Malvern  Hill  vary  between  low  brick,  timber  pickets  and  modern  styles. 
The Federation houses often had picket fences, although these are less common in Malvern 
Hill  and  low  brick  fences,  matching  the  house  bricks,  predominate.  These  often  have 
rounded  “bullnose”  edges.  California  bungalows  also  had  brick  fences,  with  an  infill  of 
wrought iron panels in scroll patterns.  

326 

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Height/Storeys  

The majority of houses are single storey, although some have steep roofs, with attic levels, 
for example, No 15 Malvern Avenue. The minority two storey houses are located mainly in 
Malvern  and  Dickinson  Avenues,  on  larger  blocks  in  the  earlier  subdivisions.  There  are  a 
small number of modern houses in the area.  

Garages/Carports  

Most  houses  have  car  parking  on site  as  well  as  adequate  on-street  parking. The garages 
have usually been located behind the building line to the rear of the sites as allotments were 
wide  enough  to  allow  for  this.  There  are  a  few  cases  where  carports  have  more  recently 
been erected in front as well as to the side of houses.  

The Strand  

The  façade,  although  partially  altered  with  new  windows  to  some  premises,  is  still  intact 
above street level. The terracotta tiled roofline is broken with gables. The balconies on the 
first  floor  are  recessed  with  brick  arches.  These  are  intact  at  the  northern  end  but  are 
enclosed with rectangular aluminium windows at the southern end. In the centre, a shingled 
bay window projects out over the awnings (no. 11). The roofs are terracotta or slate and, in 
sections,  have  been  replaced  with  new  tiles  but  in  sympathetic  colours.  There  exists  a 
parapet  wall  with  contrasting  dark  brick  strapping  highlighting  arches.  Recessed  brick 
arches, similar to those on the western side were originally unenclosed, but some now have 
windows.  

The shop fronts on street level have been largely remodelled on both sides of The Strand. A 
few  shops,  for  example,  Numbers  16,  18,  26,  38,  42  and  50,  have  retained  the  original 
character of dark green or crimson ceramic tiled fronts, with art nouveau colours. The brass 
sashes around windows are also retained at Numbers 16, 18, 26 and 50.  

Some shop steps have retained tessellated tile patterns, such as at Numbers 16, 18, 26 and 
50.  

Landscape  

The  compartmentalisation  of  the  suburb  was  carried  over  to  the  gardens.  Fences,  hedges 
and paths defined the gardens and the house. These are a feature in Malvern Hill. There are 
paths, either curved or straight, leading across lawns of couch or buffalo grasses. The paths 
often feature decoratively coloured tessellated tiles.  

The gardens tend to be in a formal style, with strategically placed trees and shrubs. These 
were  planted  to  complement  the  houses’  architecture,  for  example,  tall  thin  trees  such  as 
palms  were  located  in front gardens  and  larger shrubs  like frangipani  or  hydrangea  placed 
around  the  house  to  soften  the  edges.  Often  roses  were  located  along  front  fences  or 
adjacent  to  front  paths.  There  may  also  have  been  shaped  flower  beds  in  the  earlier 
gardens.  

The  street  trees,  especially  those  associated  with  the  Federation  period,  contribute  to  the 
character  of  the  area.  Examples  of  the  original  plantings  are  found  in  Lea  Street  and 
Chelmsford Avenue.  

In  Lea  Street,  the  palms  Phoenix  Canariensis  (Canary  Palms),  being  within  the  pavement 
area, line the road. Burwood  Council, in 1912, pioneered the planting of the trees as other 
varieties such as Camphor Laurels, interfered with electricity wires. Originally the palms were 
located  on  the  roadway,  as  is  commonly  seen  around  the  Burwood  and  Ashfield  areas. 
Improvements, however, have taken place recently and the footpath widened to include the 
palm trees. This has had the effect of narrowing the road pavement area.  

327 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The brush box trees along Chelmsford Avenue also contribute to the attractive character of 
the area.  

Eucalypts  in  David  Street,  although  not  the  original  species  planted,  create  a  light  leafy 
canopy.  

Townscape and Streetscape  

Any  new  two  storey  buildings,  modern  alterations  to  single  storey  houses  or  removal  of 
original  street  trees  and  landscaping  not  only  affects  the  cohesive  character  of  the  area 
when  looking  at  individual  houses,  but  destroys  the  character  of  the  area  when  viewed 
overall.  

Criterion 3: Research Significance  

There are a number of future research opportunities in respect of the Malvern Hill Estate and 
Conservation Area, such as:  

  Connections  to  other  garden  suburbs  in  Sydney  and  overseas,  show  how  elements 

were varied to suit Australian and New South Wales conditions.  

  How was the Garden Estate or Subdivision made “self contained”?  

  The effect of covenants placed on Malvern Hill Estate properties.  

  What were the particular design elements of the Estate houses that attracted the “middle 

class” purchasers?  

  The reasons for the particular species of trees selected for the Estate.  

Criterion 4: Social Significance  

From the late 1800s, optimism in Australia’s future was strong, culminating in the Federation 
of the States in 1901. There was prosperity in the building industry. Materials and tradesmen 
were freely available. Building techniques had advanced.  

Unlike  in  the  Victorian  era  when  large  commercial  and  government  buildings  were 
emphasised, the construction of new suburbs for the middle classes increased. A large rise 
in population resulted in urgent needs for housing. The spread of suburbs was assisted by 
the growth of public transport.  

The Burwood and District Historical Society advises that:  
The Malvern Hill Estate is one of the earliest conservation areas in NSW and has been the 
subject of numerous studies, including the original Malvern Hill Conservation Study, carried 
out by Burwood Council staff in 1983, and architectural analysis of The Strand carried out by 
Helen Lochhead and Steven Togher (date unknown) and an analysis of some houses by the 
late Philip Clements.  
The  Malvern  Hill  Estate  contains  some  of  the  earliest  California  Bungalows  in  Sydney  and 
many of these are architect designed.  

The  area  has  connections  with  a  number  of  important  Sydney  personages  such  as  Sir 
Bertram Stevens, who lived in Malvern Avenue whilst Premier of NSW in the 1930s.  
The area contains a number of houses designed by architects such as Peddle and Thorpe, 
George  Durrell,  Donald  Esplin,  Kent  Budden  and  Greenwell,  Morrow  and  De  Putron  and 
William Kenwood.  

Originally  all  streets  were  lined  with  Canary  Island  Date  Palms  (Phoenix  Canariensis)  of 
which only six survive in Lea Street. Despite the loss of palm trees, the area still has strong 

328 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
landscape  qualities  with  mature  plantings  of  plants  such  as  palms,  camphor  laurels,  crepe 
myrtles and frangipanis.  

It  has  a  database  compiled  from  the  building  registers  of  Burwood  Council  that  lists  the 
builders and/or architects of nearly 150 of the houses and shops in Malvern Hill.  

Statement of Significance  

The  Malvern  Hill  Estate  is  significant  because  together  with  the  Appian  Way  and  other 
conservation area in Burwood, it is a key part of what distinguishes Burwood from other parts 
of Sydney.  

It  is  a  highly  intact  relatively  large  area  of  quality  Federation  and  California  Bungalows  on 
substantial  blocks  of  regular  size  together  with  an  integral  neighbourhood  shopping  centre 
divided by wide tree lined streets presenting cohesive but varied streetscapes.  

Malvern  Hill  has  connections  with  a  number  of  important  Sydney  people  and  a  number  of 
well-known architects as referred to previously.  

The area’s particular scale and detail presents a highly desirable area for family living.  

THIS IS THE END OF THE  
BURWOOD DEVELOPMENT CONTROL PLAN 

329 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
