Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 1–INTRODUCTION 

Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015 is Council's principal planning document 
to  regulate  effective  and  orderly  development  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.  The  LEP 
provides  objectives,  zones  and  development  standards  such  as  lot  sizes  and  floor 
space ratios. 

Part  A1  of  Bankstown  Development  Control  Plan  2015  supplements  the  LEP  by 
providing  additional  objectives  and  development  controls  to  enhance  the  function 
and liveability of certain centres in the City of Bankstown. The development controls 
include storey limits, setbacks and building design. 

Applicants must note: 

(a)  Development  must  comply  with  the  other  development  controls  of  this  DCP. 
However if applicable to a development application, the development controls 
of Part A1 will prevail  if there is an inconsistency with any other development 
controls in this DCP. 

(b)  Council  applies  the  design  quality  principles  of  State  Environmental  Planning 
Policy  No  65–Design  Quality  of  Residential  Apartment  Development  and  the 
Apartment  Design  Guide  to  residential  flat  buildings,  shop  top  housing, 
serviced apartments, boarding houses and mixed use development (containing 
dwellings). This includes buildings that are two storeys or less, or contain less 
than four dwellings. 

(c)  A building envelope is not a building, but a three dimensional shape that may 
determine  the  bulk  and  siting  of  a  building.  After  allowing  for  building 
articulation,  the  achievable  floor  space  of  a  development  is  likely  to  be  less 
than the building envelope. 

Objectives 

The objectives of Part A1 of this DCP are: 

(a)  To have development that is compatible with the desired character and role of 

the particular centre. 

(b)  To  have  development  that  achieves  good  urban  design  in  terms  of  building 

form, bulk, architectural treatment and visual amenity. 

(c)  To  have  development  that  provides  adequate  amenity  to  people  who  live  in, 

work in and visit the local area. 

(d)  To  have  transitional  areas  that  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing  suburban 

character and amenity of neighbouring residential environments. 

(e)  To have specific guidelines for key development sites within the centres. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 2–BANKSTOWN CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT 

Introduction 

This section applies to the Northern CBD Core, Southern CBD Core and Bankstown 
City Plaza precincts as shown in Figure 1. 

About the Bankstown CBD locality 

The Bankstown CBD is a Major Centre in the West Central Subregion and the heart 
of  the  City  of  Bankstown.  This  locality  is  highly  urbanised  with  civic,  retail  and 
commercial  activities  generally  focussed  around  the  railway  station.  This  locality  is 
also densely populated with some 16,000 residents living in the residential areas to 
the north and south. 

In 2011, Council adopted the Bankstown CBD Local Area Plan to set out the vision 
and specify the best ways to accommodate residential and employment growth. By 
2031,  the  Bankstown  CBD  is  expected  to  grow  by  3,800  dwellings  and  4,000  new 
jobs. The urban structure and actions contained in the Local Area Plan are based on 
sustainability  principles  derived  from  Government  and  Local  Council  policies, 
namely: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

to  have  around  80%  of  the  3,800  dwelling  target  concentrated  within  the 
walking  catchment  of  this  Major  Centre  (i.e. a  1km  radius measured from  the 
railway station); 

to have 4,000 new jobs concentrated in the CBD Core, which is a location that 
most residents in the subregion can comfortably travel to within 30 minutes by 
public transport; 

to  have  neighbourhood  parks  within  easy  walking  distance  (around  400 
metres) of the residential growth areas; and 

to  have  sustainable  transport  promoted  by  increasing  the  share  of  work 
journeys by public transport and cycling. 

The Local Area Plan provides the strategic planning framework and context to this 
section of the DCP. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 1: Bankstown CBD precincts 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

1.0  Desired character for the Bankstown CBD mixed use precincts 

There are three precincts of distinctive functional and physical character that make 
up the mixed use areas in this locality. These are the Northern CBD Core, Southern 
CBD  Core  and  Bankstown  City  Plaza  precincts  as  shown  in  Figure  1.  These 
precincts  offer  an  effective  base  to  outline  the  desired  character  objectives  to 
implement the development controls at a local level as follows: 

(i)  Northern CBD Core precinct 

The  Northern  CBD  Core  precinct  is  located  to  the 
immediate  north  of  the  railway  line.  The  Civic  Precinct 
and  Paul  Keating  Park  form  the  central  focus,  and  the 
established  character  is  distinctly  commercial  due  to  a 
concentration  of  major  civic,  office  and  retail  buildings 
(namely  Bankstown  City  Council,  Bankstown  Court 
House,  Bankstown  Police  Area  Command,  Compass 
Centre  and  Bankstown  Central,  which  is  a  regional 
shopping centre). 

This precinct is highly accessible to the railway station and bus interchange, and as 
a  result,  this  precinct  is  characterised  by  taller  buildings  and  higher  densities 
compared to other precincts. 

The  desired  character  is  to  have  the  Northern  CBD  Core  precinct  continue  to 
function as the heart of the City of Bankstown,  with a mix of retail and commercial 
activities on the ground and first floors, and high density living above. Development 
will  generally  be  in  the form of  tall  buildings  to  create  an  identifiable  skyline  image 
for  the  Bankstown  CBD.  The  tallest  buildings  will  generally  locate  around  Paul 
Keating  Park  to  define  the  Civic  Precinct  and  to  take  advantage  of  the  amenity 
provided by the park. 

Generally, buildings around the railway station will be built to the street alignment to 
reinforce the urban character and strengthen the pedestrian amenity and activity at 
street level. Depending on the context, elements of taller buildings may need to be 
setback  to  provide  sunlight  to  public  spaces  or  to  protect  the  amenity  of 
neighbouring buildings. 

The railway station will continue to be the principal gateway to the Bankstown CBD 
and a generator of high pedestrian movements. Pedestrian access to and from the 
station will therefore remain a high priority, and it is proposed to create a friendly first 
impression by: 

• 

Creating  a  central  boulevard  along  Fetherstone  Street  to  make  the  station 
entry  more  visible  and  to  provide  a  high  quality  north–south  pedestrian 
connection  to  Sydney’s  best  local  Civic  Precinct  (as  shown  in  Figure  2).  The 
boulevard  treatment  will  extend  along  The  Mall  to  also  provide  a  high  quality 
east–west pedestrian connection to Bankstown Central. Mid–block connections 
will supplement this pedestrian network. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

• 

Encouraging  airspace  development  over  the  station  to  create  a  memorable 
landmark  at  the  terminus  of  the  Fetherstone  Street  boulevard  and  to  provide 
better  pedestrian  connections  between  the  north  and  south  sides  of  the 
Bankstown City Plaza precinct. 

Towards  the  CBD  edge,  buildings  will  have  a  minimum  3  metre  street  setback  to 
accommodate  the  major  street  tree  boulevards  leading  into  the  Bankstown  CBD, 
namely Rickard Road and Meredith Street (as shown in Figure 2). This setback will 
also  act  as  a  transition  to  the  building  alignments  of  the  neighbouring  residential 
area. 

(ii)  Bankstown City Plaza precinct 

The Bankstown City Plaza precinct is located around the 
railway  station  and  bus  interchange,  and  was  the  first 
area to develop following the opening of the Bankstown 
railway 
townscape 
in  1909.  The  established 
character  is  a  traditional  low  density  shopping  strip 
based  on  a  small  lot  subdivision  pattern.  There  is  a 
consistent  two  storey  street  wall  and  a  concentration of 
historic 1920s Art Deco buildings. 

line 

There  is  also  considerable  pedestrian  activity  compared  to  other  precincts  (mainly 
around the shops and restaurants) and good solar access to the pedestrian friendly 
streets. 

The  desired  character  is  to  have  the  Bankstown  City  Plaza  precinct  retain  the  low 
density  shopping  strip,  renowned  for  the  consistent  two  storey  street  wall  and  Art 
Deco  buildings.  Development  will  promote  retail  and  commercial  activities 
particularly at the ground and first floors. 

The  Bankstown  City  Plaza  will  also  enjoy  good  solar  access  to  the  pedestrian 
friendly streets, and the building form will require development above the two storey 
street wall to be stepped back a minimum 3 metres from the street alignment. 

(iii)  Southern CBD Core precinct 

The  Southern  CBD  Core  precinct  is  located  to  the 
immediate  south  of  the  railway  line.  The  established 
character  is  high  density  mixed  use  development, 
together  with  some  cultural  and  entertainment  facilities 
(namely  Bankstown  Sports  Club  and  the  Regional  Arts 
Centre)  and  schools.  The  mature  Fig  trees  along 
Olympic Parade form an impressive western gateway. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

The  desired  character  is  to  have  the  Southern  CBD  Core  precinct  continue  to 
contain  retail  activities  and  high  amenity  housing  around  the  transport  hub.  The 
building form will be a mix of retail and commercial activities on the ground and first 
floors,  and  high  density  living  above.  The  location  of  the  tallest  buildings  will  take 
advantage  of  the  larger  site  sizes  in  proximity  to  the  railway  station  and  bus 
interchange. 

Generally, buildings around the railway station will be built to the street alignment to 
reinforce the urban character and strengthen the pedestrian amenity and activity at 
street level. Depending on the context, elements of taller buildings may need to be 
setback to provide an appropriate building scale to pedestrians, to provide sunlight 
to public spaces or to protect the amenity of neighbouring buildings. 

Towards  the  CBD  edge,  buildings  will  have  a  minimum  3  metre  street  setback  to 
accommodate  street  tree  avenues.  These  avenues  will  form  part  of  a  high  quality 
pedestrian  environment  that  connects  the  exciting  regional  arts  hub  at  Olympic 
Parade to the Stanley Street eastern gateway (as shown in Figure 2). This setback 
along  Stanley  Street  will  also  act  as  a  transition  to  the  building  alignments  of  the 
neighbouring residential area. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 2: Key urban renewal and street tree programs as outlined in the Local Area 
Plan  

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2.0  Building form 

Explanation 

Good  design  achieves  an  appropriate  building  form  for  sites  in  terms  of  building 
proportions and alignments. An appropriate building form defines the public domain, 
contributes  to  the  streetscape  character  and  provides  good  internal  amenity  to 
residents and workers. 

The  combination  of  Bankstown  LEP  2015  and  this  DCP  determines  the  desired 
building  form  for  the  Bankstown  CBD.  The  LEP  includes  floor  space  ratios,  lot 
widths  and  building  heights.  This  section  of  the  DCP  contains  orientation  and 
setback  controls.  However,  applicants  of  development  proposals  must  recognise 
that  the  combination  of  these  controls  is  not  a  building,  but  a  three  dimensional 
shape that may determine the bulk and siting of a building. After allowing for building 
articulation, the achievable floor space of a development is likely to be less than the 
building envelope. 

Objectives 

The objectives to achieve the desired character are: 

(a)  To require a continuous built edge to the street at locations where it is essential 

to have active street frontages. 

(b)  To  ensure  setbacks  are  compatible  with  the  surrounding  context  and  desired 

urban character of the Bankstown CBD precincts. 

(c)  To provide specific guidelines for key redevelopment sites that will significantly 
contribute to the desired urban character of the Bankstown CBD precincts. 

(d)  To encourage the orientation of buildings to optimise passive design strategies 
that  will  reduce  the  need  for  artificial  lighting  and  mechanical  heating  and 
cooling systems, and thus contribute to a sustainable urban environment. 

(e)  To  retain  the  original  building  elements  that  contribute  to  the  townscape 
significance of the Bankstown City Plaza precinct and, where original elements 
are missing, to encourage their reinstatement. 

(f)  To  ensure  development  and  signage  in  the  Bankstown  City  Plaza  precinct  is 
compatible  with  the  distinctive  character  of  the  buildings  and  surrounding 
context. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Northern CBD Core and Southern CBD Core precincts 

Setbacks 

2.1  Development  must  comply  with  the  minimum  street  setbacks  as  shown  in 

Figure 3. 

2.2 

In determining the side and rear setbacks, Council must take into consideration 
the following matters: 

(a)  whether the proposed setbacks respond to site conditions; and 

(b)  whether  the  proposed  setbacks  are  compatible  with  the  surrounding 

context and desired character of the precinct; and 

(c)  whether the proposed setbacks comply with the Apartment Design Guide. 

Certain development proposals must submit a site analysis plan to illustrate the 
site conditions and relationship to the surrounding context. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 3: Minimum street setbacks 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Site specific provisions: Nos. 83–99 North Terrace in Bankstown 

2.3  Development  must  comply  generally  with  the  site  layout  shown  in  Figure  4, 

with the intended outcome of:  

(a) 

retaining this key strategic site as a single allotment; 

(b)  ensuring  the  form  and  separation  of  buildings  on  this  key  strategic  site 

contribute to a high quality urban environment; and 

(c) 

retaining  the  mid–block  connection  from  the  railway  station  to  The  Mall 
and The Appian Way. 

Figure 4: Proposed site layout for mixed use development on this key strategic site 
(refer to cross–sections for appropriate number of storeys). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Proposed building envelope for mixed use development on this key strategic site as 
viewed from The Appian Way (not to scale). 

Proposed cross–sections for mixed use development on this key strategic site. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Site specific provisions: No. 32 Kitchener Parade in Bankstown 

2.4  Development  must  comply  generally  with  the  site  layout  shown  in  Figure  5, 

with the intended outcome of: 

(a) 

retaining this key strategic site as a single allotment; 

(b)  ensuring  the  form  and  separation  of  buildings  on  this  key  strategic  site 

contribute to a high quality urban environment; and 

(c)  providing  a  minimum  20  metre  wide  mid–block  connection  between 
Meredith  Street  and  Kitchener  Parade.  This  mid–block  connection  is 
essential to creating a pedestrian network that connects the neighbouring 
residential  areas  to  important  destinations  such  as  the  Civic  Precinct. 
this  mid–block 
Active  street 
connection. 

frontages  should 

locate  alongside 

Figure  5:  Proposed  building  envelope  for  mixed  use  development  on  this  key 
strategic site (refer to cross–sections for appropriate number of storeys). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Proposed building envelope for mixed use development on this key strategic site as 
viewed from Meredith Street (not to scale). 

Proposed north–south cross–section for mixed use development on this key 
strategic site. 

Proposed east–west cross–section for mixed use development on this key strategic 
site. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Building orientation 

2.5 

The orientation of dwellings must consider the Apartment Design Guide. 

2.6  Council may require the orientation of commercial and other non–residential 
development to maximise solar access in mid–winter (as shown in Figure 6) 
to create comfortable internal conditions that eliminate or reduce the need for 
mechanical systems of heating and cooling. This helps to provide savings in 
operational energy and reductions in greenhouse emissions. 

If  the  building  orientation  enables  the  glazing  to  primarily  face  north,  this 
maximises  the  winter  sun  penetration  and  takes  advantage  of  the  sun’s 
higher angle in summer, requiring less shading. 

Depending  on  the  site  orientation,  the  building  orientation  should  avoid  any 
glazing  to  solely  face  east  and  west  as  it  can  be  difficult  to  shade  and  may 
cause heat gain in summer. 

Figure 6: Development should orientate the building so that the longest axis 
is facing true north. 

Building design 

2.7  Development  must  articulate 

the 

facades 

to  achieve  a  unique  and 

contemporary architectural appearance that: 

(a)  unites the facades with the whole of the building form; 

(b)  provides  the  facades  with  an  appropriate  scale  and  proportion  that 
responds  to  the  use  of  the  building  and  the  desired  character  of  the 
precinct; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(c)  combines high quality materials and finishes; and 

(d)  considers any other architectural elements to Council’s satisfaction. 

2.8  Development  must  use  colour,  modulation  or  articulation  to  improve  the 

appearance of blank party walls when viewed from the street. 

Building design (gateway and corner sites) 

2.9  Development at gateway and corner sites as shown in Figure 2 must: 

(a)  ensure  the  building  facade  incorporates  one  of  the  following  corner 

elements at the street corner: 

(i) 

an architectural roof feature at the street corner that emphasises the 
corner element; or 

(ii)  provide  a  different  setback  for  the  top  floor  at  the  street  corner  by 

emphasising the corner element; or 

(iii)  provide  a  different  architectural  treatment  to  the  building  facade  at 

the street corner to emphasise the corner element; and 

(b)  ensure  the  car  parking  area  and  outdoor  display  area  are  not  visible  to 

the street, or do not present as blank walls to the street. 

Illustration to clause 2.9: 
This sketch illustrates the 
general principle of an 
architectural roof feature that 
emphasises the corner element. 

Illustration to clause 2.9: 
This sketch illustrates the 
general principle of providing a 
different architectural treatment 
to the building facade at the 
street corner to emphasise the 
corner element. 

Illustration to clause 2.9: 
These sketches illustrate the 
general principle of achieving a 
different setback for the top 
storey at the street corner by 
emphasising the corner 
element. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown City Plaza precinct 

Setbacks 

2.10  The ground and first floors of development must have a zero street setback to 

create active street frontages closer to pedestrian activity. 

2.11  The  upper  floors  of  development  (above  the  two  storey  street  wall)  must 

achieve a minimum 3 metre street setback. 

2.12  Development may have a zero side and rear boundary setback. 

Building design 

2.13  Alterations and additions to existing buildings (above the awning level) must 
retain  any  of  the  following  architectural  features  that  contribute  to  the 
townscape significance of the Bankstown City Plaza precinct: 

(a)  The architectural form in terms of: 

(i) 

the continuous two storey built edge to the street; 

(ii) 

the  vertical  facade  articulation  which  reflects  the  predominant 
pattern of narrow fronted buildings; 

(iii) 

the location of doors and windows, and the use of vertical (versus 
square) shaped windows; 

(iv) 

the continuous solid box awnings; and 

(v) 

the consistent parapet heights. 

(b)  The  architectural  detailing  characteristic  of  the  precinct,  namely  the 

1920s Art Deco style. 

(c)  The  traditional  colour,  texture  and  type  of  materials  and  finishes  (face 

brickwork and painted rendered masonry). 

2.14  Alterations and additions to existing buildings (above the awning level) must 
remove any non–contributory or intrusive structures or signs that obscure the 
architectural  features  that  contribute  to  the  townscape  significance  of  the 
Bankstown City Plaza precinct. 

2.15  The  building  design  of  infill  development  must  be  compatible  with  the 
architectural  features  that  contribute  to  the  townscape  significance  of  the 
Bankstown City Plaza precinct. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Building design (business and building identification signs) 

2.16  Business and building identification signs must integrate with the architectural 

features of the building to which they are attached as follows: 

(a)  Under  awning  signs,  awning  fascia  signs,  top  hamper  signs,  projecting 
wall  signs,  wall  signs  and  painted  window  signs  are  permissible  at  or 
below the awning level. Where there is no awning to the building, signs 
are solely permitted below the window sill of the second storey windows. 

(b)  Painted  window  signs  and  individual  laser  cut  lettering  applied  to  the 
facade  are  permissible  above  the  awning  level.  Painted  window  signs 
must not obscure more than 25% of the window area. 

(c)  Signs  that  are  painted  or  attached  to  a  building  must  not  screen 
windows and other significant architectural features of the building. 

2.17  Corporate  colours,  logos  and  other  graphics  must  achieve  a  high  degree  of 
compatibility  with  the  architecture,  materials,  finishes  and  colours  of  the 
building and the streetscape (as exemplified by the better preserved original 
buildings in the Bankstown City Plaza precinct). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

3.0  Pedestrian amenity and active street frontages 

Explanation 

Good  design  achieves  a  lively,  diverse  and  safe  pedestrian  environment  to  move 
around in, with pleasant facades at street level to stroll alongside and observe. The 
pedestrian  environment  provides  people  with  their  primary  experience  of  the 
Bankstown  CBD,  and  it  is  essential  to  offer  a  choice  of  pedestrian  routes  that  are 
interesting and connect important destinations. 

Encouraging  continuous  business  or  retail  land  uses  that  open  directly  to  the 
footpath also helps to provide active, people oriented street frontages. It enhances 
public security and passive surveillance, and can assist in supporting the economic 
viability of the Bankstown CBD. The active street frontages should incorporate clear 
glazing to allow  views into shops when they are open and also at night  when they 
are  closed.  The  effect  of  security  roller  doors  tends  to  create  the  perceptions  and 
potential of an unsafe environment. 

This section of the DCP aims to increase the amenity of the pedestrian environment 
by  encouraging  active  street  frontages  and  mid–block  connections,  and  mitigating 
adverse impacts on the street arising from driveway crossings. 

Objectives 

The objectives to achieve the desired character are: 

(a)  To  improve  pedestrian  access  in  the  Bankstown  CBD  by  providing  new  mid–
block connections and enhancing existing links as redevelopment occurs. 

(b)  To  strengthen  the  pedestrian  amenity  by  requiring  good  physical  and  visual 

connections between buildings and the street. 

(c)  To  make  vehicle  access  to  buildings  more  compatible  with  pedestrian 

movements and the public domain. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Mid–block connections 

3.1  Development must retain existing mid–block connections or provide new mid–
block connections as shown in Figure 7 to provide a legible pedestrian network 
that is easy to move around and connects important destinations. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Active street frontages 

3.2  The design of street frontages must ensure: 

(a) 

the  ground  floor  is  at  the  same  general  level  as  the  footpath  and 
accessible directly from the street; and 

(b) 

the ground floor provides a positive street address in the form of entries, 
lobbies  and  clear  glazing  that  contribute  to  street  activity  and  promote 
passive  surveillance.  The  ground  floor  facade  must  minimise  large 
expanses of blank walls. 

This clause applies to locations where it is essential or desirable to retain the 
ground and first floors as commercial and retail floor space as shown in Figure 
7. 

Vehicle footpath crossings 

3.3  Development  must  optimise  the  opportunities  for  active  street  frontages  and 

streetscape design by: 

(a)  making vehicle access points as narrow as possible; 

(b) 

limiting the number of vehicle accessways to a minimum; and 

(c)  avoiding the location of car park entries, driveways and loading docks at 

the corners of street intersections. 

For sites with two or  more frontages, car park entries, driveways  and loading 
docks  must  locate  on  lanes  and  minor  streets  rather  than  primary  street 
frontages or streets with high pedestrian activity. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 7: Active street frontages and mid–block connections. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 3–REVESBY VILLAGE CENTRE 

This section is based on the Bankstown Housing Strategy (1997) and the Revesby 
Village  Masterplan  (2001),  which  Council  adopted  to  guide  development  in  the 
Revesby village centre. The masterplan sets the desired character and provisions to 
achieve the design outcomes which are consistent with Council’s vision, namely: 

(a)  To have a strong and ‘individual’ character that is reflected through residential 

design cohesion, community artworks and active public domain spaces. 

(b)  To  have  a  variety  of housing  types  ranging from  dwelling  houses  to  shop  top 

housing. 

(c)  To  have  a  range  of  facilities  that  are  complemented  by  entertainment  and 
recreation  areas.  The  streets  in  the  retail  centre  will  evolve  in  a  way  that 
encourages pedestrian activity and vitality. Inclusion of consistent and themed 
paving,  street  furniture  and  landscaping  will  enrich  the  visual  amenity  of  the 
environment, particularly for pedestrians. 

(d)  To have safe and accessible vehicular movements and car parking in the retail 
centre.  The  continuity  of  street  level  shopping  will  be  retained  in  new 
development.  Outdoor  cafes,  portable  market  stalls,  artworks,  shelters  and 
other public amenities will be abundant, particularly in the retail centre. 

(e)  To  have  a  safe  and  visually  interesting  environment  that  enables  pedestrians 
to move easily between the part of Revesby village centre to the north of the 
railway and the part to the south of the railway. 

(f)  To have residential streetscape treatments that provide for the creation of safe 
and  attractive  environments  that  reinforce  the  village  theme.  Retention  of 
existing street trees and additional planting of theme trees will be encouraged. 

(g)  To  have  new  architectural  styles  that  ‘fit’  with  surrounding  buildings.  The 
character  and  diversity  of  the  residential  areas  will  be  enriched  by  retaining 
historic  elements  (facades),  incorporating  community  artworks  and  providing 
visually enticing public open spaces. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Desired character objectives 

There are 16 precincts that make up the Revesby village centre as shown in Figure 
1. 

Figure 1: Precincts in the Revesby village centre. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

The desired character objectives for the Revesby village centre are: 

(1)  Precinct 1A (Bransgrove Road and The River Road) 

The  desired  character  specific  to  Precinct  1A  is  to  have  a  range  and  mix  of 
residential  accommodation  without  jeopardising  the  streetscape  character  that  is 
currently  defined  by  detached  housing  on  individual  allotments.  Dual  occupancy 
scale development should retain and reinforce the existing subdivision pattern. 

The  placement  and  arrangement  of  new  buildings  should  be  such that  garages do 
not  dominate  the  streetscape,  and  should  maximise  the  amount  of  private  open 
space by enabling verandahs or porches to open onto communal and public areas. 

(2)  Precinct  1B  (Simmons  Street  and  surrounds)  and  Precinct  1C  (Polo 

Street and Simmons Street) 

The desired character specific to Precincts 1B and 1C is to maintain the subdivision 
pattern  and  residential  character  as  defined  by  detached  buildings  on  separate 
allotments  to  ensure  a  consistent  streetscape  is  achieved  as  the  density  of  the 
precinct increases. 

Development that enhances the range and mix of residential accommodation should 
retain  or  enhance  the  existing  “cottage”  and  “bungalow”  architectural  styles,  and 
retain  the  existing  narrow  and  “intimate”  character  of  Simmons  Street  and  Lillian 
Crescent. 

The  materials  of  construction,  colours,  building  detail  and  form  of  development 
should be compatible with the existing architectural style in these precincts, which is 
characterised by pitched tile roofs, ‘earthy’ colours and weatherboard, fibre–cement 
or brick cladding. This may occur through the articulation of elevations which utilise 
facade elements such as bay  windows,  gables, balconies and verandahs, and use 
materials that improve the energy efficiency of the design. 

The  placement  and  arrangement  of  new  buildings  should  be  such that  garages do 
not  dominate  the  streetscape,  and  should  maximise  the  amount  of  private  open 
space by enabling verandahs or porches to open onto communal and public areas. 

(3)  Precinct 2A (Swan Street) 

The  desired  character  specific  to  Precinct  2A  is  to  have  higher  density  residential 
development than that at present, towards the village centre consisting of a mixture 
of  multi  dwelling  housing  and  residential  flat  buildings.  The  range  and  mix  of 
residential types should cater for changing demographic needs in the community. 

Development  which  supports  higher  density  residential  development  should 
encourage site amalgamation, and provide open space and legible pedestrian links 
to the Public Domain Precinct. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

26 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Attractive  and  private  open  space  will  be  integral  to  any  new  development,  and 
should  include  landscaped  communal  areas  that  are  linked  by  pedestrian  routes 
back to the public domain in the village centre. The placement and arrangement of 
new  buildings  should  maximise  the  amount  of  private  open  space  by  enabling 
verandahs or porches to open onto communal and public areas. 

Footpaths in Swan Street should be progressively replaced with new 2 metre wide 
concrete footpaths. Such upgrading should be a requirement of site redevelopment 
consent.  Similarly,  electrical  reticulation  should  be  progressively  changed  to  an 
underground service. 

(4)  Precinct 3A (Central Revesby) 

The desired character specific to Precinct 3A is to have a central shopping area of 
Revesby  that  is  characterised  by  a  predominance  of  individual  shopfronts  along 
Selems  Parade  and  the  eastern  end  of  Marco  Avenue,  interspersed  with  some 
larger buildings accommodating uses such as supermarkets and banks. 

To help invigorate these areas both during normal business hours and after hours, 
shop top housing along Selems Parade and Marco Avenue, and studios or loft units 
and townhouses at the rear of shops will provide opportunities for small businesses 
and  home  occupation  activities.  Active  street  frontages  should  be  encouraged  by 
introducing retail and business uses as well as by encouraging residential foyers to 
be  incorporated  on  all  developments.  Development  should  retain  the  consistent 
building alignment along the street front. 

Shop  top  housing  should  be  achieved  on  either  individual  or  amalgamated  sites, 
with  a  consistent  building  alignment  along  the  street–front,  and  setbacks  for 
apartments  above.  The  streetscape  should  express  the  commercial  nature  of  the 
precinct,  while  making  adequate  provision  for  residential  access,  privacy  and 
amenity. 

Development on rear lanes should be achieved on either individual or amalgamated 
sites, with upper level studios or loft units built up to the boundary above service or 
car park areas, provided there is adequate provision for separate access. 

(5)  Precinct 3B (Revesby Station) 

The  desired  character  specific  to  Precinct  3B  is  to  have  the  public  reserve  land  at 
the western end of Marco Avenue and the land adjacent to the railway rezoned and 
car  parking  and  access  facilities  designed  and  constructed  to  provide  for  a  well–
landscaped,  safe  environment.  Such  areas  must  be  provided  with  perimeter 
landscaping and entrance feature. 

A  two–way  vehicular  link  should  be  provided  from  the  western  end  of  the  existing 
car parking area abutting the northern boundary of the Revesby Railway Station and 
an  existing  unformed  car  parking  area  currently  located  on  public  reserve  land  on 
the corner of Marco Avenue and Polo Street. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

This  will  provide  a  continuous  east–west  vehicular  link  through  the  car  park  that 
exists  behind  the  existing  Woolworths  supermarket  to  the  proposed  roundabout 
facility  on  the  corner  of  Marco  Avenue  and  Polo  Street.  The  public  benefits 
associated with these works include: 

(a)  enhanced traffic movement flexibility; 

(b)  enhanced car parking capacity; 

(c) 

improved lighting and safety; and 

(d) 

improved visual amenity (through tree planting, car parking definition and street 
furniture provision). 

The  unformed  car  park  located  at  the  corner  of  Marco  Avenue  and  Polo  Street 
should  be  line  marked  and  landscaped  with  deciduous  trees  planted  to  provide 
summer shade. Perimeter planting and an entrance feature must be provided. The 
car park should be well lit at night. 

(6)  Precinct 3C (Simmons Street) 

The  desired  character  specific  to  Precinct  3C  is  to  have  a  car  park  adjacent  to 
Simmons  Street  retained  as  an  at–grade  car  park  with  vehicular  entry  and  exit 
provision to Simmons Street. 

As this precinct is situated between the residential area of Simmons Street and the 
commercial area of the village, the design of the car park should provide for a well–
landscaped,  safe  environment  that  is  sensitive  to  the amenity  and character of  the 
adjoining  residential  area  in  Simmons  Street.  Lighting  of  the  car  park  should  be 
improved.  A  two-way  vehicular  access  connection  to  The  River  Road  should  be 
provided. The public benefits associated with these works include: 

(a) 

increased traffic flexibility in the study area generally; 

(b) 

increased traffic access and egress options; and 

(c)  greater natural surveillance of the areas around the car park and nearby retail 

and residential areas due to increased traffic circulation. 

In  order  to  reduce  the  impact  of  through–traffic  on  the  precinct,  a  detailed  traffic 
study should be undertaken in conjunction with any development proposal. 

(7)  Precinct 3D (The River Road) 

The desired character specific to Precinct 3D is to have the future redevelopment of 
this area into ground floor retail or business activities, that contain dwellings above, 
should  be  encouraged.  As  a  transition  zone  between  residential  areas  along  The 
River  Road  and  the  village  centre  of  Revesby,  this  precinct  should  contain  three 
storey scale mixed use buildings that provide a consistent building alignment along 
the street front. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

The  frontage  along  Haydock  Lane  should  become  a  more  vibrant  and  well–used 
thoroughfare  with  smaller  tenancy  spaces  of  around  20  square  metres  that  attract 
service type uses that complement existing retail activities in the area. 

(8)  Precinct 4A (Revesby Place) 

The desired character specific to Precinct 4A is to have this precinct activated during 
normal  business  hours  and  after  business  hours  by  the  development  of  new  retail 
activities  that  incorporate  shop  top  housing  along  Revesby  Place,  Blamey  Street 
and  Macarthur  Avenue,  and  by  creating  opportunities  for  small  businesses  and 
home occupation activities. 

Shop top housing and residential flat buildings should occur on amalgamated sites, 
and  have  a  consistent  building  alignment  along  the  street–front,  with  setbacks  for 
dwellings  above.  The  streetscape  should  express  the  commercial  nature  of  the 
precinct,  while  making  adequate  provision  for  residential  access,  privacy  and 
security. 

Residential flat buildings should have communal open spaces at their centre that will 
be overlooked, in parts, by balconies and living areas, making them safe recreation 
and relaxation areas. 

These spaces should be designed so that they have a pleasant micro–climate that 
maximises the efficiency of natural heating and cooling systems within rooms in the 
surrounding  buildings.  Secure  car  parking  for  residents  and  users  of  the  retail  and 
commercial tenancies will be located below the courtyards at half basement level. 

(9)  Precinct 4B (Ray McCormack Reserve) 

The  desired  character  specific  to  Precinct  4B  is  to  have  Ray  McCormack  Reserve 
function as a public open space for residents in precincts south of the railway line, 
should  be  enhanced.  Its  function  of  providing  passive  recreation  opportunities 
should be retained. 

In  the  long  term,  there  is  potential  for  relocating  the  activities  associated  with  the 
existing  community  building  and  possibly  removal  of  the  building,  but  only  with 
further community consultation. The relocation of the community hall would allow a 
significant  physical  extension  to  the  Reserve  enhancing  informal  active  play 
opportunities.  In  this  regard,  any  extension  to  the  Reserve  should  consist  of  open 
grassed areas with tree planting limited to the periphery. Pathways to, and through, 
the reserve should be well lit and suitable for use by people of all ages and people 
with disabilities. 

New development adjacent to Ray McCormack Reserve should address the reserve 
and have windows and balconies/verandahs from living areas located on the side of 
the building that faces the reserve. This will improve the surveillance and security of 
the reserve. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(10)  Precinct 4C (The River Road) 

The desired  character  specific to  Precinct  4C  is  to  have a  transition  zone  between 
residential areas along The River Road and the Revesby village centre, this precinct 
should  be  a  lively  community  uses precinct  that  has  a  strong  visual  and functional 
relationship to the adjacent reserve. 

The frontage to Ray McCormack Reserve should be enlivened by the integration of 
activities  such  as  cafes,  youth  play  zones  and  so  on,  which  open  up  onto  the 
streets.  New  development  must  “address”  Ray  McCormack  Reserve  and  improve 
the surveillance and security of that reserve by its building design. 

(11)  Precinct 5A (Revesby Workers Club) 

The  rail  corridor,  Blamey  Street,  Dixon  Lane,  Macarthur  Avenue,  Brett  Street  and 
Tarro Avenue bound the precinct. The desired character specific to Precinct 5A is to 
provide opportunities for the sustainable growth and redevelopment of the Revesby 
village  centre,  with  a  mix  of  retail,  commercial,  recreational,  community  and 
residential land uses. Development in the precinct should: 

(a)  achieve high quality architectural and landscaping outcomes; 

(b)  minimise visual bulk and scale by having multiple built forms; 

(c)  create  active  street  frontages,  particularly  to  Blamey  Street,  Dixon  Lane  and 

Macarthur Avenue with good natural surveillance; 

(d)  achieve high quality public open spaces and wide footpaths, which contribute 

to the amenity of the shopping centre; 

(e)  minimise  the  impact  of  traffic  movements  in  the  shopping  centre  and 

surrounding residential streets; and 

(f) 

provide  generous  setbacks  to  neighbouring  residential  properties  in  Tarro 
Avenue and Brett Street (the preference is have residential and business land 
uses with basement car parking adjacent to Tarro Avenue and Brett Street to 
integrate with the residential streetscape). 

(12)  Precinct  6A  (Brett  Street  and  Hedlund  Street)  and  Precinct  6B  (Brett 

Street) 

The desired character specific to Precinct 6A and Precinct 6B is to have a range and 
mix  of  residential  accommodation  without  jeopardising  the  streetscape  character 
that  is  currently  defined  by  detached  housing  on  individual  allotments.  Dual 
occupancy  scale  development  should  retain  and  reinforce  the  existing  subdivision 
pattern,  and  multi  dwelling  housing  may  achieve  a  density  of  not  less  than  175m2 
per  dwelling  with  new  buildings.  The  placement  and  arrangement  of  new  buildings 
should be such that garages do not dominate the streetscape, and should maximise 
the  amount  of  private  open  space  by  enabling  verandahs  or  porches  to  open  onto 
communal and public areas. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(13)  Precinct 6C (Weston, Brett and Hedlund Streets) 

The desired character specific to Precinct 6C is to maintain the subdivision pattern 
and residential character as defined by detached buildings on separate allotments to 
ensure a consistent streetscape is achieved as the density of the precinct increases. 
Single,  detached  house  scale  development  of  one  or  two  storeys  should  retain  or 
enhance the existing “cottage” and “bungalow” architectural styles, and may include 
family housing. 

The  materials  of  construction,  colours,  building  detail  and  form  of  development 
should be compatible with the existing architectural style in these precincts, which is 
characterised by pitched tile roofs, ‘earthy’ colours and weatherboard, fibre–cement 
or brick cladding. This may occur through the articulation of elevations which utilise 
facade elements such as bay  windows,  gables, balconies and verandahs, and use 
materials that improve the energy efficiency of the design. 

The  placement  and  arrangement  of  new  buildings  should  be  such that  garages do 
not  dominate  the  streetscape,  and  should  maximise  the  amount  of  private  open 
space by enabling verandahs or porches to open onto communal and public areas. 

(14)  Public domain precinct 

The  desired  character specific  to  the  public  domain  is  to  have  a  visually  cohesive, 
safe and functional public space in the village centre that will be a vibrant meeting 
and gathering place for the local community and visitors. The public domain will also 
be  a  place  for  the  expression  of  culture  and  ideas  through  artworks,  market  days 
and public festive activities. 

The  micro–climate  and  comfort  level  of  the  public  domain,  for  pedestrians,  will  be 
pleasant  throughout  all  seasons  of  the  year.  This  will  be  enhanced  through  the 
application  of  uniform  design  elements  and  details  (e.g.  new  landscaping,  seating, 
shade structures, lighting, paving, new playground facilities and public artworks) and 
improved physical access techniques. Additional tree planting along Marco Avenue, 
Blamey Street and Selems Parade will also assist with achieving this goal. 

Construction  of  the  public  domain  space  will  result  in  a  strong  visual  and  physical 
pedestrian link across the railway line. This will be enhanced through the application 
of  uniform  design  elements  and  details  (e.g.  paving,  street  tree  species)  and 
improved physical access techniques. All spaces within the public domain should be 
accessible  by  people  with  disabilities  (including  those  in  wheelchairs)  and  elderly 
people. 

Traffic calming techniques should be adopted for all roads within the public domain. 
This will enhance the public domain as an attractive destination whilst discouraging 
through–traffic movement. Shared pedestrian / vehicular zones should be provided 
as an extension to the major north–south pedestrian link across the railway line and 
will  provide  a  safe  and  attractive  environment  for  all  users,  including  elderly, 
disabled and young people. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the desired character objectives are: 

Storey limit (not including basements) 

3.1  The storey limit within Zone B2 Local Centre are: 

(a)  2 storeys where the building height is 11 metres. 

(b)  3 storeys where the building height is 14 metres. 

(c)  4 storeys where the building height is 14 metres. 

(d)  8 storeys where the building height is 26 metres. 

3.2  Development  up  to 3 storeys  within  Zone  B2  Local  Centre may  contain  attics 

provided: 

(a) 

the pitch of the roof creating the space does not exceed 35 degrees; and 

(b) 

the  gross  floor  area  of  the  attic  does  not  exceed  60%  of  the  gross  floor 
area of the storey immediately below; and 

(c)  one or more dormers may form part of the attic. 

3.3  The  storey  limit  within  Zone  R2  Low  Density  Residential  is  2  storeys  and 
dwelling  houses,  dual  occupancies,  attached  dwellings  and  multi  dwelling 
housing may contain attics provided: 

(a) 

the attic does not give the external appearance of a storey; and 

(b) 

the pitch of the roof creating the space does not exceed 35 degrees; and 

(c) 

the external enclosing walls do not exceed a height of 300mm measured 
vertically from the floor level of the attic, but does not include gabled end 
walls; and 

(d) 

there is no balcony, terrace, and the like forming part of the attic; and 

(e) 

the attic accommodates no more than two small rooms (for the purposes 
of  a  bedroom  and/or  study)  and  an  ensuite  plus  an  internal  link  to  the 
storey below; and 

(f) 

the  gross  floor  area  of  the  attic  does  not  exceed  60%  of  the  gross  floor 
area of the storey immediately below; and 

(g)  one or more dormers may form part of the attic. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

32 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

3.4  The design of dormers: 

(a)  must be compatible with the scale, form, and pitch of the roof; and 

(b)  must not project above the ridgeline of the main roof; and 

(c)  must not exceed a width of 2 metres; and 

(d) 

the number of dormers must not dominate the roof plane. 

Precinct 1A, Precinct 6A and Precinct 6B (setbacks and parking) 

3.5  The  minimum  setback  for  a  building  wall  to  the  primary  road  frontage  is  4.5 

metres, and to the secondary road frontage is 3 metres. 

3.6  Multi dwelling housjing may provide off–street car parking at the following rate: 

(a)  1 car space per 1 or 2 bedroom dwelling; 

(b)  2 car spaces per 3 or more bedroom dwelling. 

Precinct 1B, Precinct 1C and Precinct 6C (facade design) 

3.7  Within any front elevation, at least 50% of the building must incorporate one or 
more facade elements, such as bay windows, gables, awnings, balconies and 
verandahs,  and  use  materials  which  improve  the  energy  efficiency  of  the 
building. 

Precinct 2A (setbacks and parking) 

3.8  The  minimum  setback  for  a  building  wall  to  the  primary  road  frontage  is  4.5 

metres. 

3.9  For multi dwelling housing, the minimum setback for a building wall to the side 

and rear boundary of an allotment is 4.5 metres. 

3.10  Multi dwelling housing may provide off–street car parking at the following rate: 

(a)  1 car space per 1 bedroom dwelling; 

(b)  1.5 car spaces per 2 bedroom dwelling; 

(c)  2 car spaces per 3 or more bedroom dwelling. 

3.11  Residential  flat  buildings  may  provide  off–street  car  parking  at  the  following 

rate: 

(a)  1 car space per 1 bedroom dwelling; 

(b)  1.2 car spaces per 2 bedroom dwelling; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

33 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(c)  1.5 car spaces per 3 or more bedroom dwelling. 

Precinct 3A, Precinct 3D and Precinct 4A (setbacks and parking) 

3.12  The front alignment of buildings incorporating ground level commercial space 
should be located on the alignment of the front property boundary, or on the 
same  alignment  as  the  majority  of  other  buildings  in  the  street,  where  more 
than 50% of the total length of building facade is setback. 

3.13  The  front  alignment  (of  all  levels  other  than  ground  level)  of  buildings 
incorporating shop top housing on levels above ground level must be setback 
4 metres from the front property boundary. An encroachment into the setback 
area  of  up  to  4  metres  for  a  distance  of  10–20  metres  (from  the  boundary 
nearest  the  street  corner)  along  the  property  boundary  is  permitted  on 
two  streets.  Similarly,  an 
intersection  of 
buildings 
encroachment of up to 4 metres is permitted for terraces and balconies. 

located  on 

the 

3.14  The  front  alignment  of  buildings  incorporating  ground  level  residential 
development  or  the  front  alignment  of  courtyard  walls  in  a  residential 
development  should  be  located  on  the  alignment  of  the  front  property 
boundary  (including  The  River  Road)  or  on  the  same  alignment  as  the 
majority  of  other  buildings  in  the  street  where  more  than  50%  of  the  total 
length  of  building facade, or  buildings  immediately  adjacent  to the  proposed 
development, are setback. 

3.15  1  car  space  per  dwelling  plus  1  car  space  per  5  dwellings  for  visitor  car 

parking. 

3.16  Car  parking  in  accordance  with  Part  B5  of  this  DCP  applies  for  commercial 
uses  in  mixed  use  developments.  This  includes  1  car  space  per  40m2  of 
gross  floor  area  for  most  commercial  uses  and  off–street  loading  facilities. 
Part  B5  should  be  checked  for  variations  to  this  rate  in  relation  to  certain 
uses. 

Precinct 3B and Precinct 3C (landscaping and security) 

3.17  The  preferred  tree  species  for  Precinct  3B  is  Fraxinus  oxycarpa  ‘Raywood” 

(ash). 

3.18  The  preferred  tree  species  for  Precinct  3C  is  Tristaniopsis  laurina  (water 

gum). 

3.19  All car parking must be lit at night. Lighting levels must conform to category 

P2 levels specified in AS/NZS 1158.3.1.1999. 

Precinct 5A (setbacks and parking) 

3.20  Development must comply with the minimum setbacks shown in Figure 2. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

34 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Despite this clause, Council may allow an above ground car park to achieve a 
zero setback to the electricity substation at No. 28 Tarro Avenue in Revesby 
provided: 

(a) 

the minimum setback to Tarro Avenue is 15 metres; and 

(b) 

the minimum setback to the southern boundary of the site is 15 metres. 

3.21  The minimum setback to the western boundary and southern boundary of the 
site  must  contain  a  landscaped  area  to  integrate  with  the  residential 
streetscape, and: 

(a) 

the setbacks should be adequately landscaped with advanced trees; 

(b) 

the setbacks may contain access driveways; and 

(c)  above ground car parking is not permitted within the setbacks. 

3.22  The setback to Dixon Lane must reserve a minimum 1.2 metre wide corridor 

for use as a pedestrian public footpath. 

3.23  Development must pave and landscape the adjacent public areas as shown 

in Figure 3 as the development is likely to impact these areas. 

For  the  public  areas  requiring  Type  1  paving  as  shown  in  Figure  3,  the 
development must: 

(a)  ensure all pavement is CBD Type 1 Pavement Standard; 

(b)  provide pedestrian scale lighting and street furniture; 

(c)  ensure  street  tree  planting  is  at  the  rate  of  one  200  litre  tree  per  8 

metres of frontage; and 

(d)  ensure  the  pavement,  trees,  street  furniture  and  street  lighting  comply 

with the Revesby village centre materials palette. 

For the remaining public areas requiring Type 2 paving as shown in Figure 3, 
the development may provide standard 1.2 metre wide concrete footpaths. 

3.24  Development  must  submit  a  traffic  study  to  quantify  and  model  the  traffic 
impact the proposal will have on the surrounding area. The traffic study must: 

(a)  quantify  the  impact  the  proposal  may  have  on  vehicle  movements  and 
parking  in  the  southern  side  of  the  Revesby  shopping  centre  and 
surrounding residential streets; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

35 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b) 

recommend  how  semi–trailers,  delivery  trucks  and  private  buses  will 
access the site from The River Road; 

(c) 

recommend  practical  locations  for  drop–off/pick–up  areas  and  taxi 
ranks; 

(d) 

recommend  traffic  management  measures  and  funding  to  address  the 
impacts, including proposed measures on regional roads; 

(e) 

recommend traffic management measures to minimise through traffic in 
Brett Street and Tarro Avenue; 

(f) 

recommend  measures  to  create  pleasant  and  safe  public  pedestrian 
footpaths; and 

(g)  consider any other issue as identified by Council. 

Precinct 4B (active park frontages) 

3.25  Commercial  or  residential  development  fronting  Ray  McCormack  Reserve 
should  comply  with  the  relevant  character  precinct  requirements  and  other 
parts of this DCP. 

3.26  The preferred tree species is Fraxinus oxycarpa ‘Raywood’ (ash). 

Public domain precinct (works plan) 

3.27  The  public  domain  area  should  be  developed  in  accordance  with  the 

Recommended Village Centre Public Domain Works Plan. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

36 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 2: Proposed height and setback controls for development on the site. 

Figure 3: Footpath paving types for the public areas adjacent to the site. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

37 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure  4:  Proposed  building  envelope for  development  on  the  site  as  viewed  from 
Brett Street (not to scale). 

Figure  5:  Proposed  building  envelope for  development  on  the  site  as  viewed  from 
Tarro Avenue (not to scale). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

38 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 4–CHESTER HILL VILLAGE CENTRE AND SEFTON SMALL VILLAGE 
CENTRE 

Introduction 

This  section  applies  to  the  Chester  Hill  Village  Centre  and  Sefton  Small  Village 
Centre as shown in Figure 1. 

About the Chester Hill Village Centre and Sefton Small Village Centre locality 

The Chester Hill Village Centre and Sefton Small Village Centre are generally bound 
by Virgil Avenue to the north, Rose Street to the east, Proctor Parade to the south 
and Miller Road to the west. Development is mainly focused around the railway line 
and  Waldron  Road,  which  runs  through  the  middle  of  the  village  centre  and  the 
small village centre. 

In 2013, Council adopted the North West Local Area Plan to set out the vision and 
specify  the  best  ways  to  accommodate  residential  and  employment  growth.  By 
2031, the North West Local Area is expected to grow by 4,925 residents and 2,363 
dwellings.  The  urban  structure  and  actions  contained  in  the  Local  Area  Plan  are 
based  on  sustainability  principles  derived  from  Government  and  Local  Council 
policies, namely: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

to  increase  housing  capacity  and  have  around  60%  of  the  2,363  dwellings 
within  the  walking  catchments  of  the  Chester  Hill  Village  (i.e.  a  600  metre 
radius measured from the railway station) and Sefton Small Village Centre (i.e. 
a 400 metre radius from the railway station); 

to strengthen the function of village and small  village centres as an important 
provider  of  retail,  commercial  and  community  uses  in  the  North  West  Local 
Area; 

to encourage urban renewal and sustainable development in centres; 

to integrate retail, commercial, residential and other development in village and 
small  village  centres  to  maximise  public  transport  patronage  and  encourage 
walking and cycling; 

to  accommodate  taller  buildings  in  the  village  and  small  village  centres  and 
provide an appropriate transition in building heights to neighbouring areas. 

The Local Area Plan provides the strategic planning framework and context to this 
section of the DCP. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

39 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 1: Chester Hill Village Centre and Sefton Small Village Centre 

Chester Hill Village Centre 

Sefton Small Village Centre 

Not to 
Scale 

CHESTER HILL VILLAGE CENTRE  
AND  
SEFTON SMALL VILLAGE 
CENTRE 

DISCLAIMER                North 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

40 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

1.0  Desired  character  for  the  Chester  Hill  Village  Centre  and  Sefton  Small 

Village Centre 

The  Chester  Hill  Village  Centre  and  Sefton Small  Village  Centre  are  connected  by 
Waldron  Road  and  the  railway  line.  These  two  precincts  complement  and  support 
each  other  in  their  role  as  a  village  centre  and  a  small  village  centre  for  the  North 
West  Local  Area.    Figure  2  outlines  the  desired  structure  plan  with  a  retail  core 
along  Waldron  Road  and  a  surrounding  residential  transitional  area.  The  two 
precincts  offer  an  effective  base  to  outline  the  desired  character  objectives  to 
implement the development controls at a local level as follows: 

(i)  Chester Hill Village Centre 

The Chester Hill Village Centre is characterised by retail, community and residential 
uses.    The  retail  areas  are  located  to  the  north  of  the  railway  line,  at  the  Chester 
Square  shopping  centre  and  along  Waldron  Road.    These  areas  comprise  a 
supermarket and a good range of shops and services (post office and banks). 

Most  shops  are  traditional  shop  top  housing  with  servicing  from  the  rear.  
Community facilities are located to the south of the railway line and include Chester 
Hill  Public  School,  an  RSL,  a  community  centre,  library  and  Nugent  Park.  
Residential  uses  surrounding  the  community facilities  provide a  transitional area  to 
the  retail  core.    Much of  the  housing  stock  is  reaching  the  end  of its  life  cycle  and 
consists of a mix of residential flat buildings, dual occupancies and dwelling houses. 

The desired character is for the Chester Hill Village Centre to continue to function as 
the largest shopping precinct servicing the northern suburbs of the North West Local 
Area.  The built form will offer a wide range of medium and high density living within 
easy walking distance of the railway station and civic spaces. 

Waldron Road will transform into the main street for the Chester Hill Village Centre.  
This will generally be in the form of a mix of retail and commercial activities on the 
ground and first floors with high density living above.  This will strengthen the retail 
core, activate the street level and enhance natural surveillance. 

The south side of the precinct will provide a conveniently located and highly valued 
community  hub  for  the  residents  of  the  northern  suburbs  to  gather  and  meet, 
comprising the multi–purpose community centre, library and meeting spaces. 

(ii)  Sefton Small Village Centre 

The Sefton Small Village Centre supports the village centre role of Chester Hill.  It is 
characterised  by  local  shops,  shop  top  housing  and  a  residential  transitional  area.  
Local shops are generally single storey with some shop top housing.  These shops 
service  the  day–to–day  needs  of  residents  and  workers  of  the  nearby  industrial 
precinct.    It  is  the  proximity  to  the  Chester  Hill  Village  Centre  which  significantly 
hinders the ability for Sefton to become an independent centre as the centres are in 
direct competition. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

41 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

The  desired  character  is  for  the  Sefton  Small  Village  Centre  to  support  the 
residential  growth  of  the  Chester  Hill  Village  Centre  particularly  along  Waldron 
Road, a major public transport corridor.  The built form will offer a range of medium 
and  high  density  living  set  within  a  safe  and  high  quality  environment,  whilst 
maintaining  the  low  density  historic  character  of  Kara  Street  and  Kerrinea  Road.  
The  local  shops  and  Birrong  Leisure  Centre  will  service  the  day–to–day  needs  of 
residents and workers. 

Figure 2: Chester Hill Village Centre and Sefton Small Village Centre Structure Plan 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

42 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2.0  Building form 

Explanation 

Good  design  achieves  an  appropriate  building  form  for  sites  in  terms  of  building 
proportions and alignments.  An appropriate building form defines the public domain, 
contributes  to  the  streetscape  character  and  provides  good  internal  amenity  to 
residents and workers. 

The  combination  of  Bankstown  LEP  2015  and  this  DCP  determines  the  desired 
building  form  for  the  Chester  Hill  Village  Centre  and  Sefton  Small  Village  Centre.  
The LEP includes floor space ratios, lot widths and building heights.  This section of 
the DCP contains setbacks, storey limits and building design guidelines.  However, 
applicants  of  development  proposals  must  recognise  that  the  combination  of  these 
controls is not a building, but a three dimensional shape that may determine the bulk 
and siting of a building.  After allowing for building articulation, the achievable floor 
space of a development is likely to be less than the building envelope. 

Objectives 

The objectives to achieve the desired character are: 

(a)  To  provide  storey  limits  for  the  Chester  Hill  Village  Centre  and  Sefton  Small 

Village Centre. 

(b)  To  ensure  setbacks  are  compatible  with  the  surrounding  context  and  the 

desired character of the area. 

(c)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  residential  development 
provide appropriate amenity to residents in terms of access to sunlight, privacy 
and protection from freight railway noise. 

(d)  To require a continuous built edge to the street at locations where it is essential 

to have active street frontages. 

(e)  To  ensure  signage  in  the  retail  core  is  compatible  with  the  architectural 

features of buildings and the desired character of the area. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

43 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Storey limit 

2.1  Development  within  the  Chester  Hill  Village  Centre  and  Sefton  Small  Village 
Centre  must  comply  with  the  storey  limit  that  corresponds  with  the  maximum 
building height shown for the site on the Height of Building Map as follows: 

Maximum building height as shown on the Height 
of Buildings Map (Bankstown LEP 2015) 

13 metres 
14 metres 
20 metres 
26 metres 

Storey limit (not 
including basements) 
4 storeys (no attic) 
4 storeys (no attic) 
6 storeys (no attic) 
8 storeys (no attic) 

Setbacks to the primary road frontage of allotments 

2.2  The  minimum  setbacks  to  the  primary  road  frontage  of  an  allotment  within 

Zone B2 Local Centre are: 

(a)  zero setback for the basement level, the first storey (i.e. the ground floor) 

and second storey; and 

(b)  5 metres for the third storey and above. 

Setbacks to the secondary road frontage and the side boundary of allotments 

2.3  The minimum setback to the secondary road frontage and the side boundary of 
an  allotment  within  Zone  B2  Local  Centre  is  zero  setback  for  all  storeys.  
Where  development  is  adjacent  to  residential  zoned  land,  Council  may 
increase  the  minimum  setback  to  the  secondary  road  frontage  and  side 
boundary. 

Setbacks to the rear boundary of allotments 

2.4  The  minimum  setbacks  to  the  rear  boundary  of  an  allotment  within  Zone  B2 

Local Centre are: 

(a)  zero setback for the first storey (i.e. the ground floor) and second storey 

where the site adjoins a rear lane; or 

(b)  3  metres  for  the  first  storey  (i.e.  the  ground  floor)  and  second  storey 

where the site does not adjoin a rear lane; and 

(c)  3 metres for the third storey and above. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

44 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2.5  Despite clause 2.4, dwellings on allotments identified in Figure 3 must comply 

with: 

(a) 

the minimum setbacks shown in Figure 3; or 

(b) 

incorporate  appropriate  measures  to  ensure  that  the  following  LAeq 
levels are not exceeded: 

(i) 

in any bedroom in the building–35 dB(A) at any time between 10.00 
pm and 7.00 am; and 

(ii)  anywhere  else  in  the  building  (other  than  a  garage,  kitchen, 

bathroom or hallway)–40 dB(A) at any time. 

This  clause  applies  to  certain  allotments  in  the  Chester  Hill  Village  Centre 
affected by the Southern Sydney Freight Line.  The rear setback should form 
part of a landscape buffer zone. 

Figure 3: Minimum rear setback for dwellings on certain allotments in the Chester 
Hill Village Centre 

            12m  from  the  rear  boundary 

of an allotment 

30m  from  the  rear  boundary 
of an allotment 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

45 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Building design (car parking) 

2.6  Where  an  allotment  adjoins  a  rear  lane,  Council  may  allow  above  ground  car 

parking at the rear of the allotment provided that 

(a) 

the car park occupies only the rear of the first storey (i.e. the ground floor) 
and second storey; and 

(b) 

the  car  park  must  be  setback  a  minimum  18  metres  from  the  front 
building line to allow the gross floor area at the front of the building to be 
used for commercial, retail, or residential purposes; and 

(c) 

the building design must promote natural surveillance on the lane. 

Building design (signage) 

2.7  Business and building identification signs must integrate with the architectural 

features of the building to which they are attached as follows: 

(a)  Under  awning  signs,  awning  fascia  signs,  top  hamper  signs,  projecting 
wall  signs,  wall  signs  and  painted  window  signs  are  permissible  at  or 
below  the  awning  level. Where  there  is  no  awning  to  the  building,  signs 
are solely permitted below the window sill of the second storey windows. 

(b)  Painted  window  signs  and  individual  laser  cut  lettering  applied  to  the 
facade  are  permissible  above  the  awning  level.  Painted  window  signs 
must not obscure more than 25% of the window area. 

(c)  Signs that are painted or attached to a building must not screen windows 

and other significant architectural features of the building. 

2.8  Corporate  colours,  logos  and  other  graphics  must  achieve  a  high  degree  of 
compatibility  with  the  architecture,  materials,  finishes  and  colours  of  the 
building and the streetscape. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

46 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

3.0  Active street frontages 

Explanation 

Encouraging  continuous  business  or  retail  land  uses  that  open  directly  to  the 
footpath also helps to provide active, people oriented street frontages. It enhances 
public security and passive surveillance, and can assist in supporting the economic 
viability  of  the  Chester  Hill  Village  Centre  and  Sefton  Small  Village  Centre.  The 
active  street  frontages  should  incorporate  clear  glazing  to  allow  views  into  shops 
when they are open and also at night when they are closed. The effect of security 
roller doors tends to create the perceptions and potential of an unsafe environment. 

This  section  of  the  DCP  aims  to  encourage  active  street  frontages  and  mitigate 
adverse impacts on the street arising from driveway crossings. 

Objectives 

The objectives to achieve the desired character are: 

(a)  To  ensure  that  active  street  frontages  are  present  in  the  Chester  Hill  Village 

Centre and Sefton Small Village Centre. 

(b)  To make vehicle access to buildings more compatible with the public domain. 

Development Controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Active street frontages 

3.1  The design of street frontages must ensure: 

(a) 

the  ground  floor  is  at  the  same  general  level  as  the  footpath  and 
accessible directly from the street; and 

(b) 

the ground floor provides a positive street address in the form of entries, 
lobbies  and  clear  glazing  that  contribute  to  street  activity  and  promote 
passive  surveillance.    The  ground  floor  facade  must  minimise  large 
expanses of blank walls. 

This clause applies to locations where it is essential to retain the ground floor 
as commercial and retail floor space as shown in Figure 4. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

47 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 4: Active street frontages 

Locations where it 
is essential to retain 
the ground floor as 
commercial or retail 
uses 

Vehicle footpath crossings 

3.2  Development  must  optimise  the  opportunities  for  active  street  frontages  and 

streetscape design by: 

(a)  making vehicle access points as narrow as possible; 

(b) 

limiting the number of vehicle accessways to a minimum; and 

(c)  avoiding the location of car park entries, driveways and loading docks at 

the corners of street intersections. 

For  sites  with  two  or  more frontages,  car  park  entries,  driveways  and  loading 
docks  must  locate  on  lanes  and  minor  streets  rather  than  primary  street 
frontages or streets with high pedestrian activity. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

48 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown 
Development 
Control 
Plan 2015 

PART A2 

CORRIDORS 

 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

CONTENTS 

Section 1 

Introduction   

Section 2 

Hume Highway Corridor 

3 

4 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 1–INTRODUCTION 

Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015 is Council's principal planning document 
to  regulate  effective  and  orderly  development  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.  The  LEP 
provides  objectives,  zones  and  development  standards  such  as  lot  sizes  and  floor 
space ratios. 

Part  A2  of  Bankstown  Development  Control  Plan  2015  supplements  the  LEP  by 
providing  additional  objectives  and  development  controls  to  enhance  the  function 
and  liveability  of  certain  corridors  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.  The  development 
controls include storey limits, setbacks and building design. 

Applicants must note: 

(a)  Development  must  comply  with  the  other  development  controls  of  this  DCP. 
However if applicable to a development application, the development controls 
of Part A2 will prevail  if there is an inconsistency with any other development 
controls in this DCP. 

(b)  Council  applies  the  design  quality  principles  of  State  Environmental  Planning 
Policy  No  65–Design  Quality  of  Residential  Apartment  Development  and  the 
Apartment  Design  Guide  to  residential  flat  buildings,  shop  top  housing, 
serviced apartments, boarding houses and mixed use development (containing 
dwellings). This includes buildings that are two storeys or less, or contain less 
than four dwellings. 

(c)  A building envelope is not a building, but a three dimensional shape that may 
determine  the  bulk  and  siting  of  a  building.  After  allowing  for  building 
articulation,  the  achievable  floor  space  of  a  development  is  likely  to  be  less 
than the building envelope. 

Objectives 

The objectives of Part A2 of this DCP are: 

(a)  To have development that is compatible with the desired character and role of 

the particular corridor. 

(b)  To  have  development  that  achieves  good  urban  design  in  terms  of  building 

form, bulk, architectural treatment and visual amenity. 

(c)  To  have  development  that  provides  adequate  amenity  to  people  who  live  in, 

work in and visit the local area. 

(d)  To  have  transitional  areas  that  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing  suburban 

character and amenity of neighbouring residential environments. 

(e)  To have specific guidelines for key development sites within the corridors. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 2–HUME HIGHWAY CORRIDOR 

Introduction 

This  section  applies  to  the  seven  precincts  that  make  up  the  corridor  as  it  passes 
through the City of Bankstown as shown in Figure 1. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

About the Hume Highway Corridor 

The Hume Highway Corridor is a national and historical landmark. 

Commissioned by Governor Macquarie in 1813, the Hume Highway today functions 
as: 

• 

• 

• 

a national highway linking Sydney with Canberra and Melbourne; 

a  front  door  to  the  City  of  Bankstown,  with  over  62,000  motorists  travelling 
through the municipality (via the Hume Highway) every day; and 

a  major  investment  and  employment  zone  for  the  City  of  Bankstown,  with 
major  employers  including  News  Limited,  Australia  Post, Western  Foods  and 
Rydges. 

In  addition,  there are many  national,  state and  regional  significant  features  located 
along  the  Hume  Highway  Corridor  as  it  passes  through  the  City  of  Bankstown. 
These  include  the  Remembrance  Driveway  landscape  corridor,  the  Dunc  Grey 
Velodrome  and  Olympic  cycling  venue,  the  Meccano  Set  intersection  and  the 
historic Water Tower at the Stacey Street intersection. 

The  Metropolitan  Plan  nominates  the  Hume  Highway  as  an  enterprise  corridor 
where the aim is to strengthen local employment and services that benefit from high 
levels of exposure. Retail activity needs to be limited to ensure that corridors do not 
detract from the centres hierarchy. Opportunities for urban consolidation along busy 
roads may be pursued and some residential accommodation uses may be included, 
including land within Zone B6 Enterprise Corridor if considered appropriate. 

This  section  is  based  on  the  Hume  Highway  Corridor  Strategy  (2004)  and  the 
Yagoona  Town  Centre  Renewal  Strategy  (2006),  which  Council  adopted  to  guide 
development  in  the  Hume  Highway  Corridor.  The  strategies  set  the  desired 
character and  provisions  to  achieve  the  design  outcomes  consistent  with  Council’s 
vision. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

1.0  Desired character for the Hume Highway Corridor precincts 

There are seven precincts of distinctive functional and physical character that make 
up  the  Hume  Highway  Corridor  as  shown  in  Figure  1.  These  precincts  offer  an 
effective  base  to  outline  the  desired  character  objectives  to  implement  the 
development controls at a local level as follows: 

(i)  Precinct 1 (Meccano Set Gateway) 

The desired character specific to Precinct 1 (Meccano Set Gateway) is to have 
a  low–density  residential  precinct  that  forms  a  major  gateway  to  the  City  of 
Bankstown,  and  promotes  the  image  of  a  suburban  area  with  high  amenity. 
This  includes  reintroducing  people  to  the  Corridor  through  the  creation  of 
shared  pathways  and  connectivity  between  the  Villawood  and  Bass  Hill 
residential areas. 

(ii)  Precinct 2 (Bass Hill Small Village Centre) 

The Bass Hill Small Village Centre (as shown in Figure 2) is generally bound 
by  the  Hume  Highway  to  the  north,  Johnston  Road  to  the  south,  Carysfield 
Park  to  the  east  and  Arundle  Road  to  the  west.    The  small  village  centre  is 
segregated  into  long  north–south  segments  between  the  Hume  Highway  and 
Johnston Road, and is located along a regional bus route. 

The Bass Hill Small Village Centre is dominated by the Bass Hill Plaza, which 
includes supermarkets, a department store and specialty stores, and the Hume 
Highway.  Adjacent to the Bass Hill Plaza are large land holdings, such as the 
Twin Willows  Hotel  and  a  caravan  park  site  and  the  Remembrance  Driveway 
landscape  corridor.    New  housing  stock  is  located  at  the  former  Bass  Hill 
Drive–In theatre site, situated to the west of the Bass Hill Plaza. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 2: Bass Hill Small Village Centre 

Bass Hill Small Village Centre 

Not to 
Scale 

BASS HILL SMALL VILLAGE 
CENTRE 

DISCLAIMER                North 

The  Bass  Hill  Small  Village  Centre  currently  lacks  an  identity  from  the  Hume 
Highway  with  the  Bass  Hill  Plaza  being  the  key  recognisable  marker.    The 
Plaza  has  no  relation  to  its  surroundings  and  presents  as  a  car  park  to  the 
public domain.  The small village centre comprises north–south pedestrian and 
vehicular  links  from  the  Hume  Highway  to  Johnston  Road  through  the  Plaza.  
The east–west linkages from the Plaza to the large land holdings are limited. 

The  desired  character  is  for  the  Bass  Hill  Small  Village  Centre  to  continue  to 
function  as  a  major  shopping  precinct  along  the  Hume  Highway  Enterprise 
Corridor  and  the  Remembrance  Driveway  landscape  corridor.    Medium  and 
high  density  housing  within  a  generous  landscape  setting,  together  with  the 
long  term development  of a main  street,  will  support  the  retail function  of  this 
precinct.    Figure  3  outlines  the  structure  plan  with  a  retail  core,  residential 
transitional area and a new east–west linkage from the Plaza to the large land 
holdings. 

The  continuation  of  the  Remembrance  Driveway  Landscape  Corridor  on 
allotments with direct frontage to the Hume Highway is also desired to improve 
the landscape character of the area. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 3: Bass Hill Small Village Centre Structure Plan 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(iii)  Precinct 3 (Residential) 

The  desired  character  specific  to  Precinct  3  (Residential)  is  to  have  a  high 
amenity  suburban  area.  New  development  must  deliver  quality  architectural 
and  landscape  outcomes.  The  potential  also  exist  to  provide  extraordinary 
character  through  this  zone  with  the  planting  of  trees  and  groundcover  along 
the median strips to announce the arrival to the Yagoona village centre. 

(iv)  Precinct 4 (Yagoona Village Centre) 

The  desired  character  specific  to  Precinct  4  (Yagoona  Village  Centre)  is  to 
have a village centre that: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Creates  a  new  central  place  as  the  focus  for  retail  activities,  with  the 
potential for the development or expansion of a large scale supermarket 
anchor. 

Consolidates  community  facilities  presently  spread  across  the  village 
centre into a community hub, potentially on the site of the present senior 
citizen centre and community buildings. This site allows for future mixed–
use development in addition to the community hub. 

Creates better connections across the highway 

On  the  northern  side  of  the  Hume  Highway,  creates  a  new  east–west 
pedestrian street that connects the retail and community anchor hubs to 
the railway station (with lift access). 

Restricts  the  opportunities  for  the  dispersal  of  retail  activities  outside  of 
the consolidated retail core area. In addition, allow the reuse of large sites 
in the retail core area to attract new retail development anchors. 

Allows  opportunities for  residential  development  within  the  village  centre 
and 
that  achieve  high  quality 
architectural and landscaping outcomes. 

immediate  surrounding  area 

the 

Improves  the  physical  environment  for  retail  along  the  Hume  Highway 
frontages  with  street 
improvement  of 
pedestrian  crossings,  slowing  traffic  to  a  design  speed  of  60km/h  and 
encourage highway parking outside peak hours. 

tree  and  median  planting, 

Improves  car  parking  provision  by  upgrading  the  car  park  to  the  east  of 
the  railway  line.  At  the  same  time  focus  on  improved  pedestrian  access 
into the village centre. 

Reinforces  access  to  the  retail  and  community  anchor  hubs  and  to  the 
railway  station.  Improve  the  drop–off facilities  for  the  railway  station  and 
schools through extending Cooper Lane. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

• 

Upgrades the recreational facilities available in Gazzard Park as a village 
green,  with  improved  passive  visual  surveillance  and  active  recreational 
facilities (such as playground equipment and walking/cycle trails). 

Figure 4: Yagoona Village Centre Structure Plan 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(v)  Precinct 5 (Rookwood Road) 

The  desired  character  specific  to  Precinct  5  (Rookwood  Road)  is  to  have  a 
large  scale  enterprise  zone  that  forms  a  major  gateway  to  the  City  of 
Bankstown,  and  a  connecting  spine  to  the  Bankstown  Central  Business 
District. This precinct will primarily promote commercial, hospitality, tertiary and 
highway related uses, with opportunities for some medium density home units 
surrounded by a generous landscaped setting. 

The  desired  character  is  to  also  have  a  landscape  buffer  zone  to  the  Hume 
Highway  that  enhances  the  Remembrance  Driveway  landscape  corridor,  and 
to have: 

• 

• 

dwellings  that  are  setback  from  the  Hume  Highway  to  provide  residents 
with good amenity in terms of air quality and acoustic privacy; and 

development that provides a 2 storey buffer to George Street to minimise 
any adverse impact on other land in the vicinity of these key development 
sites. 

(vi)  Precinct 6 (Chullora Technology Park) 

The  desired  character  specific  to  Precinct  6  (Chullora  Technology  Park)  is  to 
have  an  upmarket  industrial  precinct,  surrounded  by  a  generous  landscaped 
setting and high environmental amenity. 

(vii)  Precinct 7 (Greenacre Motor Alley) 

The desired character specific to Precinct 7 (Greenacre Motor Alley) is to have 
an  employment  zone  that  primarily  promotes  the  precinct  as  Bankstown's 
Motor Alley. This would involve: 

• 

• 

• 

creating  a  new  enterprise  zone  that  offers  high  technology  industries, 
businesses, car yards and highway related uses in a landscaped setting; 

allowing  opportunities for  home  units  on  large  sites  within  the enterprise 
zone where the residential use is setback from the Hume Highway and do 
not impact on neighbours to the south; and 

consolidating  village  centre  activities  around  the  Chullora  shopping 
centre. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2.0  Building Form (Bass Hill Small Village Centre) 

Explanation 

Good  design  achieves  an  appropriate  building  form  for  sites  in  terms  of  building 
proportions and alignments. An appropriate building form defines the public domain, 
contributes  to  the  streetscape  character  and  provides  good  internal  amenity  to 
residents and workers. 

The  combination  of  Bankstown  LEP  2015  and  this  DCP  determines  the  desired 
building form for the Bass Hill Small Village Centre.  The LEP includes floor space 
ratios,  lot  widths  and  building  heights.    This  section  of  the  DCP  contains  storey 
limits, setbacks and building design guidelines. 

However, applicants of development proposals must recognise that the combination 
of these controls is not a building, but a three dimensional shape that may determine 
the  bulk  and  siting  of  a  building.    After  allowing  for  building  articulation,  the 
achievable  floor  space  of  a  development  is  likely  to  be  less  than  the  building 
envelope. 

Objectives 

The objectives to achieve the desired character are: 

(a)  To ensure the bulk and density of development is compatible with the location 
of the development to shopping centres and public transport, and the desired 
character of the Hume Highway Corridor. 

(b)  To  provide  the  Hume  Highway  Corridor  with  environments  that  are  safe,  well 

landscaped and achieve high amenity. 

(c)  To  have  a  landscape  buffer  zone  to  the  Hume  Highway  that  enhances  the 
Remembrance  Driveway  landscape  corridor  and  improves  the  amenity  of 
development. 

(d)  To  have  a  minimum  setback  to  arterial  roads  that  improves  the  amenity  of 

dwellings in terms of air quality and acoustic privacy. 

(e)  To  encourage  business  activities  and  active  street  frontages  to  the  Hume 

Highway. 

(f)  To  have  appropriate  bulk,  density  and  vehicle  access  that  will  not  have  an 

adverse impact on land in the vicinity of the key development sites. 

(g)  To identify gateway sites and ensure the built form marks the entrance into the 

Bass Hill Small Village Centre. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Storey limit 

2.1  Development  within  the  Bass  Hill  Small  Village  Centre  must  comply  with  the 
storey  limit  that  corresponds  with  the  maximum  building  height  shown  for  the 
site on the Height of Building Map as follows: 

Maximum building height as shown on the Height 
of Buildings Map (Bankstown LEP 2015) 

9 metres 
13 metres 
14 metres 
16 metres 

Storey limit (not 
including basements) 
2 storeys (plus attic) 
4 storeys (no attic) 
4 storeys (no attic) 
5 storeys (no attic) 

Building design (gateway sites) 

2.2  Development at gateway sites as shown in Figure 5 must: 

(a)  ensure  the  building  facade  incorporates  one  of  the  following  corner 

elements at the street corner: 

(i) 

an architectural roof feature at the street corner that emphasises the 
corner element; or 

(ii)  provide  a  different  setback  for  the  top  floor  at  the  street  corner  by 

emphasising the corner element; or 

(iii)  provide  a  different  architectural  treatment  to  the  building  facade  at 

the street corner to emphasise the corner element; and 

(b)  ensure  the  car  parking  area  and  outdoor  display  area  are  not  visible  to 

the street, or do not present as blank walls to the street. 

Figure 5: Gateway sites 

Proposed Gateway 
Sites 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Site specific provisions: Nos. 731–737 and No. 753 Hume Highway in Bass Hill 

2.3  The  minimum  setback  to  the primary  road frontage for  the  allotments  at  Nos. 
731–737  and  No.  753  Hume  Highway  in  Bass  Hill  is  5  metres.    The  front 
setback  must  contain  a  landscape  buffer  zone  that  forms  part  of  the 
Remembrance Driveway landscape corridor. 

2.4 

In  determining  the  setbacks  to  the  secondary  road  frontage  and  the  side and 
rear  boundaries  of  allotments,  Council  must  take  into  consideration  the 
following matters: 

(a)  whether the proposed setbacks respond to site conditions; and 

(b)  whether  the  proposed  setbacks  are  compatible  with  the  surrounding 

context and the desired character of the precinct; and 

(c)  whether the proposed setbacks comply with the Apartment Design Guide. 

2.5  For the allotment at No. 737 Hume Highway in Bass Hill, the minimum setback 
to  the  Carey  Pathway  is  2  metres  with  no  dividing  fence.    The  intended 
outcome is to create a wide pedestrian accessway with active frontages. 

Site specific provisions: Nos. 713–727 Hume Highway in Bass Hill 

2.6  Council may apply the storey limit (not including basements) shown in Figure 6 
to  the  allotments  at  Nos.  713–727  Hume  Highway  in  Bass  Hill  only  if  it  is 
satisfied that: 

(a)  development  will  consolidate  all  the  allotments  into  a  single  allotment; 

and 

(b)  development within 20 metres of the southern and western boundaries of 
the allotment does not exceed 2 storeys (not including the building at the 
north–west corner of the allotment); and 

(c)  development  in  the  remaining  area  of  the  allotment  does  not  exceed  5 
storeys.    Council  does  not  allow  development  with  4  or  more  storeys  to 
have attics. 

If  in  Council's  opinion  a  development  does  not  satisfy  this  clause,  a  2  storey 
limit will apply to each allotment. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2.7  Development must comply with the minimum setbacks shown in Figure 6 and 

must ensure: 

(a)  dwellings  are  setback  a  minimum  20  metres  from  the  Hume  Highway 
boundary  of  the  allotment  or  a  road  related  area  (within  the  meaning  of 
the Roads Act 1993) adjoining or associated with the Hume Highway; and 

(b)  development  provides  appropriate  solar  access  to  the  existing  dwellings 

that adjoin the side and rear boundaries of the allotment. 

2.8  Development must provide a minimum 20 metre wide landscape buffer zone to 
the  Hume  Highway  boundary  of  the  allotment  to  enhance  the  Remembrance 
Driveway landscape corridor. 

2.9  Development must provide a minimum 5 metre wide landscape buffer zone to 
the  eastern  boundary  of  the  allotment  to  minimise  any  impact  on  Carysfield 
Park. The landscape buffer zone may include private open spaces. 

2.10  Vehicle access to the allotment may be permitted from the Hume Highway, but 

is not permitted from Manuka Crescent. 

Figure  6:  Proposed  storey  limit  and  setback  controls  for  development  that 
consolidates  the  allotments  at  Nos.  713–727  Hume  Highway  in  Bass  Hill  into  a 
single allotment. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure  7:  Proposed  building  envelope  for  development  on  the  consolidated 
allotment as viewed from the Hume Highway (not to scale). 

Figure  8:  Proposed  building  envelope  for  development  on  the  consolidated 
allotment as viewed from Manuka Crescent at the rear (not to scale). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Site  specific  provisions:  No.  739  Hume  Highway  in  Bass  Hill  (within  Zone  B2 
Local Centre) 

2.11  Development  must  comply  with  the  storey  limit  (not  including  basements) 

shown in Figure 9 and must ensure: 

(a)  development within 20 metres of the eastern boundary of the allotment 

does not exceed 2 storeys; and 

(b)  development  in  the  remaining  area  of the  allotment does not exceed  4 
storeys.  Council  does  not  allow  development  with  4  storeys  to  have 
attics. 

2.12  Development must comply with the minimum setbacks shown in Figure 9 and 

must ensure: 

(a)  dwellings  are  setback  a  minimum  20  metres  from  the  Hume  Highway 
boundary of the allotment or a road related area (within the meaning of 
the  Roads  Act  1993)  adjoining  or  associated  with  the  Hume  Highway; 
and 

(b)  development provides appropriate solar access to the existing dwellings 

that adjoin the eastern boundary of the allotment. 

2.13  Development must provide a minimum 20 metre wide landscape buffer zone 
the 

the  allotment 

to  enhance 

the  Hume  Highway  boundary  of 
to 
Remembrance Driveway landscape corridor. 

2.14  Vehicle access to the part of the allotment within Zone B2 Local Centre may 

be permitted from the Hume Highway, but is not permitted from: 

(a) 

the access handle to Johnston Road; or 

(b)  Handle Street. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 9: Proposed storey limit and setback controls for mixed use development at 
the part of the allotment at No. 739 Hume Highway in Bass Hill that is within Zone 
B2 Local Centre. 

Figure  10:  Proposed  storey  limit  for  mixed  use  development  at  the  part  of  the 
allotment at No. 739 Hume Highway in Bass Hill that is within Zone B2 Local Centre. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 11: Proposed building envelope for development on the allotment as viewed 
from the Hume Highway (not to scale). 

Figure 12: Proposed building envelope for development on the allotment as viewed 
from the rear (not to scale). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Site  specific  provisions: No.  739  Hume  Highway  in  Bass  Hill  (within  Zone  R4 
High Density Residential) 

2.15  Development  must  comply  with  the  storey  limit  (not  including  basements) 

shown in Figure 13 and must ensure: 

(a)  development  within  20  metres  of  the  southern  and  eastern  boundaries 

of the allotment does not exceed 2 storeys; and 

(b)  development  in  the remaining  area  of the  allotment does not exceed  4 
storeys.  Council  does  not  allow  development  with  4  storeys  to  have 
attics. 

2.16  Development  must  comply  with  the  minimum  setbacks  shown  in  Figure  13 
and  must  ensure  a  development  provides  appropriate  solar  access  to  the 
existing  dwellings  that  adjoin  the  southern  and  eastern  boundaries  of  the 
allotment. 

2.17  Vehicle access to the part of the allotment that is within Zone R4 High Density 
Residential may be permitted from the access handle to Johnston Road, but 
is not permitted from Handle Street. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 13: Proposed storey limit and setback controls for development on the part 
of the allotment at No. 739 Hume Highway in Bass Hill that is within Zone R4 High 
Density Residential. 

Figure 14: Proposed storey limit for development on the part of the allotment that is 
within Zone R4 High Density Residential. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 15: Proposed building envelope for development on the allotment as viewed 
from the Hume Highway (not to scale). 

Figure 16: Proposed building envelope for development on the allotment as viewed 
from Johnston Road at the rear (not to scale). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Site specific provisions: Former Bass Hill Drive–In Theatre Site in Bass Hill 

Desired character 

2.18  The  desired  character  is  to  have  a  site  that  contains  a  new  residential 
neighbourhood with elements, visual patterns and a scale generally found in 
Bass  Hill.    It  will  provide  a  mix  of  housing  types  including  single  and  two 
storey attached and detached dwelling houses on small lots. The streets will 
form a legible access network conducive to safety and a sense of community 
from  the  continuous  orientation  of  house  frontages.    Based  on  a  simple 
pattern,  the  internal  streets  will  maximise  accessibility  through  direct 
connections  and  provide  an  environment  conducive  to  walking  and  cycling.  
To  assist  in  the  establishment  of  the  Duck  River–Lansdowne  Reserve 
Biodiversity  Corridor,  development  on  land  directly  adjacent  to  Johnston 
Road  will  be  restricted.    This  land  is  to  be  planted  with  indigenous  species 
and developed into a passive open space area, with access through this area 
provided to the general public. 

2.19  The maximum number of dwellings for the site is 140. 

Streetscape 

2.20  The  distribution  of  the  open  space  and  residential  dwelling  types  must  be 

generally in accordance with that shown in Figure 17. 

2.21  Development  on  the  11  metre  wide  access  handle  fronting  the  Hume 
Highway  must  be  designed  in  consultation  with  Council.    This  land  is  not 
considered suitable for separate residential development. 

2.22  Development  that  requires  “significant  architectural  treatment”  as  shown  in 

Figure 18 must: 

(a) 

incorporate  particular  architectural  features  in  the  external  treatment 
such  as  entry  corner  features,  stronger  roof  elements,  feature  stone 
walls,  prominent  veranda  elements,  domestic  character  above  garages 
and the like; and 

(b)  ensure the architectural features are appropriate to the situation such as 

marking the head of a vista or marking an intersection. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 17: Development master plan. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 18: Development that requires significant architectural treatment (shown as 
an asterisk). 

Setbacks and building envelopes 

2.23  Development must comply with the setback and building envelope controls in 

Figure 19. 

2.24  Buildings  may  be  built  to  the  side  boundaries  in  accordance  with  Figure  19 

provided: 

(a) 

living  areas  adjoining  the  property  boundary  are  able  to  receive  ample 
direct sunlight and ventilation; and 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b)  adjoining properties will not be affected and management of property on 

common boundaries minimise neighbour conflict. 

Open space 

2.25  Development  must  provide  private  open  space  in  accordance  with  the 

following controls: 

(a)  Lots that are greater than 300m2 in area must provide a minimum 80m2 
of  private  open  space.  This  can  be  provided  as  two  separate  spaces 
provided: 

(i) 

(ii) 

each  space  contains  an  area  greater  than  35m2  and  a  minimum 
width of 3.5 metres throughout; and 

the remaining contributory spaces must have a minimum width of 2 
metres. 

(b)  Lots  that  are  300m2  or  less  in  area  must  provide  a  minimum  60m2  of 
private  open  space.  This  can  be  provided  as  two  separate  spaces 
provided: 

(i) 

(ii) 

each  space  contains  an  area  greater  than  25m2  and  a  minimum 
width of 3.5 metres throughout; and 

the remaining contributory spaces must have a minimum width of 2 
metres. 

(c)  Lots 73 to 96 as shown in Figure 17 may include the space forward of 
the  front  building  line  as  private  open  space  provided  the  maximum 
height of the front fence is 1.2 metres. 

Energy efficiency 

2.26  Street  layout,  subdivision  and  buildings  should  be  designed  and  located  to 
minimise  overshadowing  of  neighbours  and  maximise  sunlight  into  windows 
of living areas of dwellings during the winter months. In the design of attached 
dwellings and multi dwelling housing this should be possible by careful siting, 
varied roof profile and setbacks. 

2.27  At least one living area of each dwelling must receive a minimum 3 hours of 
sunlight between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter solstice. Council may 
allow light wells and skylights to supplement this access to sunlight provided 
these  building  elements  are  not  the  primary  source  of  sunlight  to  the  living 
areas. 

2.28  At least one living area of a dwelling on an adjoining allotment must receive a 
minimum 3 hours of sunlight between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter 
solstice.  Where  this  requirement  cannot  be  met,  the  development  must  not 
result  with  additional  overshadowing  on  the  affected  living  areas  of  the 
dwelling. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

26 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2.29  A minimum 50% of the required private open space for: 

(a)  each proposed dwelling on an allotment; and 

(b)  each dwelling on an adjoining allotment, must receive at least 3 hours of 

sunlight between 9.00am and 5.00pm at the equinox. 

Where this clause cannot be met for a dwelling on an adjoining allotment, the 
development  must  not  result  with  additional  overshadowing  on  the  affected 
private open space. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 19: Building envelope controls for each dwelling on each lot 

19.1  Council must not grant consent to the erection of a dwelling house unless the proposed lot is at least 7 metres wide at the front building line. 

19.2  Council may require one car parking space per dwelling to locate forward of the front building line (in the form of a hardstand) to avoid garages 

and driveways dominating the front of a dwelling and landscaped area when viewed from the street. 

19.3  The schedule and diagrams of indicative houses (Types A to J) are for guidance purposes only. 

19.4  The building envelope controls for each dwelling on each lot are shown in the following table: 

Lot 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

Minimum 
Lot Size 
(m2) 

Maximum 
Gross 
Floor 
Area (m2) 

410 

225 

Minimum 
setback 
to north 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

Minimum 
setback 
to south 
boundary 
(metres) 
2 

Minimum 
setback 
to east 
boundary 
(metres) 
Nil 
setback 

Minimum 
setback 
to west 
boundary 
(metres) 
6 

419 

391 

375 

293 

270 

313 

1 

1 

1 

1 

7.5 

4.5 

375 

317 

7.5 

4.5 

Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

6 

6 

1 

1 

Indicative 
house 

Special Requirements 

B2 

B 

B 

D 

D 

No vehicle access to Arundle Road. 
Dwelling must have minimum 2 metre 
setback measured from the landscape 
easement to the south. 
No vehicle access to Arundle Road. 
Garage may have nil setback to the 
south boundary. 

Tree preservation if possible. Garage 
must have minimum 5.5 metre 
setback to the south boundary. 
Garage must have minimum 5.5 
metre setback to the south boundary. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Lot 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

Minimum 
Lot Size 
(m2) 

Maximum 
Gross 
Floor 
Area (m2) 

375 

317 

Minimum 
setback 
to north 
boundary 
(metres) 
7.5 

Minimum 
setback 
to south 
boundary 
(metres) 
4.5 

Minimum 
setback 
to east 
boundary 
(metres) 
Nil 
setback 

Minimum 
setback 
to west 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

315 

375 

315 

376 

316 

376 

451 

251 

317 

266 

317 

251 

317 

313 

7.5 

7.5 

7.5 

7.5 

7.5 

7.5 

7.5 

4.5 

4.5 

4.5 

4.5 

4.5 

4.5 

4.5 

445 

313 

7.5 

4.5 

467 

558 

313 

290 

7.5 

1 

3.5 

1 

Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
1 

1 

1 

4 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

4 

Indicative 
house 

Special Requirements 

D2 

E 

D 

E 

D 

E 

D 

A0 

A0 

S 

S 

Tree preservation if possible. Garage 
must have minimum 5.5 metre 
setback to the south boundary. 
Garage must have minimum 5.5 
metre setback to the south boundary. 

Tree preservation if possible. Garage 
must have minimum 5.5 metre 
setback to south boundary. 
Tree preservation if possible. Setback 
to south is measured from street 
boundary. 
– 

Tree preservation if possible. Garage 
must have minimum 5.5 metre 
setback to west boundary. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Lot 

Minimum 
Lot Size 
(m2) 

Maximum 
Gross 
Floor 
Area (m2) 

18 

403 

281 

Minimum 
setback 
to north 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

Minimum 
setback 
to south 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

Minimum 
setback 
to east 
boundary 
(metres) 
4 

Minimum 
setback 
to west 
boundary 
(metres) 
4.5 

19 

339 

236 

1 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

403 

322 

Nil 
setback 

393 

295 

492 

325 

602 

361 

379 

360 

228 

249 

1 

1 

4.5 

3.5 

3.5 

1 

1 

1 

1 

3 

4 

1 

4 

9 

9 

4 

2 

1 

1 

Indicative 
house 

Special Requirements 

F3 

F 

D 

4.5 

4.5 

4.5 

D2 

4.5 

1 

1 

S 

S 

F 

3.5 

C2 

Tree preservation if possible. Garage 
must have minimum 5.5 metre 
setback to west boundary, and may 
have nil setback to north boundary. 
Garage must have minimum 5.5 
metre setback to west boundary, and 
may have nil setback to north 
boundary. 
Tree preservation if possible. Garage 
must have minimum 5.5 metre 
setback to west boundary. 
Tree preservation if possible. Garage 
must have minimum 5.5 metre 
setback to west boundary, and may 
have nil setback to north boundary. 
Tree preservation if possible. Garage 
must have minimum 5.5 metre 
setback to west boundary. 
Garage must have minimum 5.5 
metre setback to north boundary. 

Garage must have minimum 5.5 
metre setback to north boundary, and 
may have nil setback to south 
boundary. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Lot 

26 

27 

28 

29 

30 

31 

32 

33 

34 

35 

36 

Minimum 
Lot Size 
(m2) 

Maximum 
Gross 
Floor 
Area (m2) 

390 

390 

390 

407 

379 

494 

272 

272 

272 

286 

258 

330 

651 

336 

380 

222 

380 

380 

380 

265 

265 

265 

Minimum 
setback 
to north 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

Minimum 
setback 
to south 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

Minimum 
setback 
to east 
boundary 
(metres) 
2 

Minimum 
setback 
to west 
boundary 
(metres) 
3.5 

Indicative 
house 

Special Requirements 

1 

1 

1 

2 

7 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

2.5 

3.5 

3.5 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

2 

2 

Nil 
setback 
1 

2 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

G 

G 

G 

C2 

F2 

A2 

S 

3.5 

3.5 

3.5 

1 

1 

1 

4.5 

F3 

4.5 

4.5 

4.5 

F2 

F2 

F2 

Garage must have minimum 5.5 
metre setback to west boundary, and 
may have nil setback to south 
boundary. 

Garage must have minimum 4 metre 
setback to south boundary. 
Garage must have minimum 5.5 
metre setback to south boundary. 
Tree preservation if possible. Garage 
must have minimum 5.5 metre 
setback to south boundary. 
Tree preservation if possible. Garage 
must have minimum 5.5 metre 
setback to west boundary. 
Tree preservation if possible. Garage 
must have minimum 5.5 metre 
setback to west boundary, and may 
have nil setback to north boundary. 
Tree preservation if possible. Garage 
must have minimum 5.5 metre 
setback to west boundary, and may 
have nil setback to south boundary. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Lot 

Minimum 
Lot Size 
(m2) 

Maximum 
Gross 
Floor 
Area (m2) 

37 

380 

265 

Minimum 
setback 
to north 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

Minimum 
setback 
to south 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

Minimum 
setback 
to east 
boundary 
(metres) 
4 

Minimum 
setback 
to west 
boundary 
(metres) 
4.5 

F2 

Indicative 
house 

Special Requirements 

38 

450 

293 

39 

40 

586 

488 

288 

252 

1 

1 

Nil 
setback 

1 

15 

3.5 

4 

2 

1.5 

41 

400 

240 

Nil 
setback 

3.5  

1  

4.5 

F2 

1 

1 

1 

S1 

C 

C 

42 

345 

275 

Nil 
setback 

3.5 

1 

1 

C 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

32 

Tree preservation if possible. Garage 
must have minimum 5.5 metre 
setback to west boundary, and may 
have nil setback to south boundary. 
Garage must have minimum 5.5 
metre setback to west boundary, and 
may have nil setback to south 
boundary. 
Tree preservation if possible.  

Dwelling front door to face the 
biodiversity corridor. 

Garage may have nil setback to west 
boundary and shared driveway. 
Dwelling front door to face the 
biodiversity corridor. Garage must 
have minimum 5 metre setback to 
west boundary, and may have nil 
setback to east boundary and shared 
driveway. 
Dwelling front door to face the 
biodiversity corridor. Garage must 
have minimum 5 metre setback to 
west boundary, and may have nil 
setback to east boundary. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Lot 

Minimum 
Lot Size 
(m2) 

Maximum 
Gross 
Floor 
Area (m2) 

43 

345 

275 

Minimum 
setback 
to north 
boundary 
(metres) 
Nil 
setback 

Minimum 
setback 
to south 
boundary 
(metres) 
3.5 

Minimum 
setback 
to east 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

Minimum 
setback 
to west 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

44 

345 

275 

45 

46 

47 

48 

49 

403 

439 

429 

330 

330 

282 

284 

299 

263 

263 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 
1 

2 

Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 

3.5 

1 

1 

1.5 

1 

1 

3.5 

3.5 

1 

3.5 

3.5 

1 

1 

3.5 

1 

1 

1 

1 

Indicative 
house 

Special Requirements 

C 

C 

C2 

G2 

B 

C 

C 

Dwelling front door to face the 
biodiversity corridor. Garage must 
have minimum 5 metre setback to 
west boundary, and may have nil 
setback to east boundary. 
Dwelling front door to face the 
biodiversity corridor. Garage must 
have minimum 5 metre setback to 
west boundary, and may have nil 
setback to east boundary. 
Garage may have nil setback to east 
boundary. 
Dwelling front door to face the 
biodiversity corridor. Garage must 
have minimum 5.5 metre setback to 
east boundary. 
Garage must have minimum 5.5 
metre setback to north boundary. 
Dwelling front door to face the 
biodiversity corridor. Garage must 
have minimum 4.5 metre setback to 
west boundary, and may have nil 
setback to east boundary. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

33 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Lot 

50 

51 

52 

53 

54 

55 

56 

57 

58 

59 

Minimum 
Lot Size 
(m2) 

Maximum 
Gross 
Floor 
Area (m2) 

425 

535 

263 

263 

450 

239 

420 

300 

420 

300 

420 

384 

640 

251 

239 

251 

239 

245 

250 

355 

Minimum 
setback 
to north 
boundary 
(metres) 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 

1 

1 

Nil 
setback 
1 

Nil 
setback 
1 

Nil 
setback 
4 

Minimum 
setback 
to south 
boundary 
(metres) 
3.5 

Minimum 
setback 
to east 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

Minimum 
setback 
to west 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

3.5 

1 

1 

C 

C 

Nil 
setback 

4.5 

1.5 

C2 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

4.5 

4.5 

4.5 

4.5 

4.5 

2.5 

1 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

4 

H 

F 

H 

F 

H 

F3 

S 

Indicative 
house 

Special Requirements 

Dwelling front door to face the 
biodiversity corridor. Garage must 
have minimum 4.5 metre setback to 
east boundary, and may have nil 
setback to west boundary. 
Dwelling and garage may have nil 
setback to shared driveway and 
landscape easement. 
Garage must have minimum 5.5 
metre setback to east boundary. 
Garage must have min. 5.5 metre 
setback to east boundary. 

Garage must have minimum 3.5 
metre setback to east boundary. 
Dwelling front door to locate on south 
elevation. Garage may have nil 
setback to east boundary and shared 
driveway. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

34 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minimum 
setback 
to north 
boundary 
(metres) 
3.5 

Minimum 
setback 
to south 
boundary 
(metres) 
3 

Minimum 
setback 
to east 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

Minimum 
setback 
to west 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

Bankstown City Council 

Lot 

60 

61 

62 

63 

64 

65 

66 

67 

68 

Minimum 
Lot Size 
(m2) 

Maximum 
Gross 
Floor 
Area (m2) 

454 

392 

456 

476 

439 

252 

275 

293 

321 

307 

Nil 
setback 
1 

1 

3.5 

393 

266 

3.5 

419 

266 

3.5 

485 

295 

3.5 

506 

357 

3.5 

2.5 

1 

1 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

8 

6 

3.5 

3.5 

3.5 

3.5 

1 

1  

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

Indicative 
house 

Special Requirements 

B 

B2 

B 

B 

B2 

CS 

CS 

CS 

A0 

Garage may have nil setback to 
shared driveway. 
Garage may have nil setback to west 
boundary. 
Garage may have nil setback to west 
boundary and shared driveway. 
Garage may have nil setback west 
boundary and shared driveway. 
Garage must have minimum 4.5 
metre setback to north boundary and 
minimum 1 metre setback to south 
boundary. 
No vehicle access to north boundary. 
Garage may have nil setback to east 
boundary and shared driveway. 
No vehicle access to north boundary. 
Garage may have nil setback to east 
boundary and shared driveway. 
No vehicle access to north boundary. 
Garage may have nil setback to east 
boundary. 
Garage must have minimum 5.5 
metre setback to north boundary, and 
may have nil setback to east 
boundary. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

35 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Lot 

Minimum 
Lot Size 
(m2) 

Maximum 
Gross 
Floor 
Area (m2) 

69 

396 

326 

Minimum 
setback 
to north 
boundary 
(metres) 
3.5 

Minimum 
setback 
to south 
boundary 
(metres) 
6 

Minimum 
setback 
to east 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

Minimum 
setback 
to west 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

70 

431 

71–72 

– 

371 

272 

– 

295 

3.5 

– 

1 

1 

– 

Nil 
setback 

73 

74 

75 

275 

196 

298 

217 

2.5 

– 

5.5 

5.5 

5.5 

5.5 

5.5 

Nil 
setback 
– 

1 to 
shared 
driveway 
1 to 
shared 
driveway 
Nil 
setback to 
shared 
driveway 
Nil 
setback to 
shared 
driveway 
1 to 
shared 
driveway 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

76 

296 

217 

77 

281 

196 

Indicative 
house 

Special Requirements 

A0 

B2 

– 

C2 

J 

J2 

J 

J 

Garage must have minimum 5.5 
metre setback to north boundary, and 
may have nil setback to east 
boundary. 
Garage must have minimum 3.5 
metre setback to west boundary. 
These allotments do not exist in 
Figures 17 or 18. 
Garage must have minimum 1 metre 
setback to south boundary. 

– 

May allow studio over garage to 
provide natural surveillance to lane. 

– 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

36 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Lot 

78 

79 

80 

81 

82 

83 

371 

295 

371 

295 

275 

196 

298 

196 

296 

217 

84 

281 

217 

85 

266 

196 

Minimum 
Lot Size 
(m2) 

Maximum 
Gross 
Floor 
Area (m2) 

266 

196 

Minimum 
setback 
to north 
boundary 
(metres) 
Nil 
setback 

Minimum 
setback 
to south 
boundary 
(metres) 
Nil 
setback 

Minimum 
setback 
to east 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 to 
shared 
driveway 
1 to 
shared 
driveway 
5.5 

5.5 

5.5 

5.5 

5.5 

5.5 

Minimum 
setback 
to west 
boundary 
(metres) 
5.5 

5.5 

1 to 
shared 
driveway 
1 to 
shared 
driveway 
1 to 
shared 
driveway  
Nil 
setback to 
shared 
driveway 
Nil 
setback to 
shared 
driveway 
1 to 
shared 
driveway 

Indicative 
house 

Special Requirements 

– 

Garage must have minimum 1 metre 
setback to north boundary. 

Garage must have minimum 1 metre 
setback to north boundary. 

Garage must have minimum 1 metre 
setback to north boundary. 

– 

May allow studio over garage to 
provide natural surveillance to lane. 

J 

C2 

C2 

J 

J 

J2 

J2 

J 

– 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

1 

1 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

Nil 
setback 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

37 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Lot 

86 

87 

88 

89 

90 

91 

92 

93 

94 

95 

96 

201 

Minimum 
Lot Size 
(m2) 

Maximum 
Gross 
Floor 
Area (m2) 

371 

295 

Minimum 
setback 
to north 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

Minimum 
setback 
to south 
boundary 
(metres) 
Nil 
setback 

Minimum 
setback 
to east 
boundary 
(metres) 
5.5 

268 

324 

324 

272 

263 

296 

296 

258 

382 

385 

385 

224 

280 

224 

224 

224 

280 

269 

239 

294 

294 

273 

Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
3.5 

3.5 

1 

Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
2 

2 

3.5 

Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
4.5 

4.5 

4.5 

4.5 

1 

1 

Nil 
setback 

Minimum 
setback 
to west 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 to 
shared 
driveway 
4.5 

4.5 

4.5 

4.5 

Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
1 

1 

4 

Indicative 
house 

Special Requirements 

C2 

Garage must have minimum 1 metre 
setback to south boundary. 

J 

J 

J 

J 

J 

J 

J 

J 

S 

S 

B 

Garage must have minimum 0.5 
metre setback to south boundary. 
– 

– 

Garage must have minimum 0.5 
metre setback to north boundary. 
– 

– 

– 

Garage must have minimum 0.5 
metre setback to south boundary. 
Garage must have minimum 1 metre 
setback to north boundary. 
Garage must have minimum 1 metre 
setback to north boundary. 
Consider corner treatment of house 
as it faces two streets.  

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

38 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Lot 

202 

203 

204 

205 

206 

207 

208 

209 

210 

211 

212 

213 

Minimum 
Lot Size 
(m2) 

Maximum 
Gross 
Floor 
Area (m2) 

423 

383 

320 

449 

449 

449 

449 

449 

449 

447 

419 

420 

269 

234 

224 

313 

313 

334 

334 

313 

313 

312 

313 

313 

Minimum 
setback 
to north 
boundary 
(metres) 
Nil 
setback 
Nil 
setback 
1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

Minimum 
setback 
to south 
boundary 
(metres) 
3.5 

Minimum 
setback 
to east 
boundary 
(metres) 
1 

Minimum 
setback 
to west 
boundary 
(metres) 
2 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1.5 

1 

1 

1 

1 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

2 

4 

5.5 

5.5 

5.5 

5.5 

5.5 

5.5 

5.5 

6 

6 

Indicative 
house 

Special Requirements 

B 

S1 

S 

A 

A2 

A 

A 

A 

A 

A 

A 

A 

Dwelling front door to face the 
biodiversity corridor. 
Dwelling front door to face east 
boundary. 
Garage may have nil setback to east 
boundary. 
– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

39 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

40 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

41 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

42 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

43 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

44 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

45 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

46 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

47 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

48 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

49 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

50 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

3.0  Pedestrian  amenity  and  active  street  frontages  (Bass  Hill  Small  Village 

Centre) 

Explanation 

Encouraging  continuous  business  or  retail  land  uses  that  open  directly  to  the 
footpath also helps to provide active, people oriented street frontages.  It enhances 
public security and passive surveillance, and can assist in supporting the economic 
viability  of  the  Bass  Hill  Small  Village  Centre.    The  active  street  frontages  should 
incorporate clear glazing to allow views into shops when they are open and also at 
night  when  they  are  closed.   The  effect of  security  roller  doors  tends  to  create  the 
perceptions and potential of an unsafe environment. 

This  section  of  the  DCP  aims  to  encourage  active  street  frontages  and  mitigate 
adverse impacts on the street arising from driveway crossings. 

Objectives 

The objectives to achieve the desired character are: 

(a) 

to improve pedestrian access in the Bass Hill Small Village Centre by providing 
new  mid–block  connections  and  enhancing  existing  links  as  redevelopment 
occurs; 

(b) 

to  ensure  active  street  frontages  are  present  in  the  Bass  Hill  Small  Village 
Centre and enhance pedestrian amenity; and 

(c) 

to ensure loading and unloading facilities and car parking do not impact on the 
safety and visual appearance of the pedestrian network. 

Development Controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Pedestrian access 

3.1  Development must retain existing mid–block connections or provide new mid–
block  connections  as  shown  in  Figure  20  to  provide  a  legible  pedestrian 
network that is easy to move around and connections important destinations. 

3.2  The minimum width of the proposed mid–block connections is 5 metres. 

Active street frontages 

3.3  Active street frontages must be provided to the ground floor of the main street 

as identified in Figure 20. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

51 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

3.4  The design of street frontages must ensure: 

(a) 

the  ground  floor  is  at  the  same  general  level  as  the  footpath  and 
accessible directly from the street; and 

(b) 

the ground floor provides a positive street address in the form of entries, 
lobbies  and  clear  glazing  that  contribute  to  street  activity  and  promote 
passive  surveillance.    The  ground  floor  facade  must  minimise  large 
expanses of blank walls and allow views into shops. 

Figure 20: Active street frontages and mid–block connections 

Active street frontages 

            Existing mid–block 
connection 

Proposed mid–block 
connection 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

52 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

4.0  Building form (Yagoona Village Centre) 

Explanation 

Good  design  achieves  an  appropriate  building  form  for  sites  in  terms  of  building 
proportions and alignments. An appropriate building form defines the public domain, 
contributes  to  the  streetscape  character  and  provides  good  internal  amenity  to 
residents and workers. 

The  combination  of  Bankstown  LEP  2015  and  this  DCP  determines  the  desired 
building form for the Yagoona Village Centre. The LEP includes floor space ratios, 
lot  widths  and  building  heights.  This  section  of  the  DCP  contains  storey  limits, 
setbacks and building design guidelines. 

However, applicants of development proposals must recognise that the combination 
of these controls is not a building, but a three dimensional shape that may determine 
the  bulk  and  siting  of  a  building.  After  allowing  for  building  articulation,  the 
achievable  floor  space  of  a  development  is  likely  to  be  less  than  the  building 
envelope. 

Objectives 

The objectives to achieve the desired character are: 

(a)  To ensure the bulk and density of development is compatible with the location 
of the development to shopping centres and public transport, and the desired 
character of the Hume Highway Corridor. 

(b)  To  provide  the  Hume  Highway  Corridor  with  environments  that  are  safe,  well 

landscaped and achieve high amenity. 

(c)  To  have  a  landscape  buffer  zone  to  the  Hume  Highway  that  enhances  the 
Remembrance  Driveway  landscape  corridor  and  improves  the  amenity  of 
development. 

(d)  To have a minimum setback to the Hume Highway that improves the amenity 

of dwellings in terms of air quality and acoustic privacy. 

(e)  To  encourage  business  activities  and  active  street  frontages  to  the  Hume 

Highway. 

(f)  To  have  appropriate  bulk,  density  and  vehicle  access  that  will  not  have  an 

adverse impact on land in the vicinity of the key development sites. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

53 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Precinct 4 (Yagoona village centre) 

4.1  Figure  21  identifies  the  more  detailed  precincts  within  the  Yagoona  village 

centre. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

54 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

4.2  Development must comply with the following development controls: 

Development 
controls 
Storey limit (not 
including basements) 

Minimum setback to 
the Hume Highway 
and Cooper Road 
Minimum setback to 
the side and rear 
boundaries 

Storey limit (not 
including basements) 

Precincts 
Precinct A 
6 storeys provided the site is at least 20 metres wide at 
the front building line. Otherwise, a 4 storey limit applies. 
Council does not allow development to have attics. 
Zero setback for the first storey (i.e. the ground floor) and 
second storey, and 7 metres for the remaining storeys. 

Zero setback for the first storey (i.e. the ground floor) and 
second storey, and remaining storeys must comply with 
the Apartment Design Guide. 
Precinct B 

6 storeys provided the site is at least 20 metres wide at 
the front building line. Otherwise, a 4 storey limit applies. 
Council does not allow development to have attics. 
3 metres for the first storey (i.e. the ground floor) and 
second storey, and 6 metres for the remaining storeys. 

Minimum setback to 
Dutton Street, 
Highland Avenue & 
Cooper Road 
Minimum setback to 
The Crescent & 
Palomar Parade 
Minimum setback to 
the side and rear 
boundaries 
Special requirements  3 storey limit applies to any part of a development within 
a 10 metre setback to The Crescent to provide a height 
and built form transition to neighbouring houses. 
Precinct C 

Must comply with the Apartment Design Guide. 

6 metres 

Storey limit (not 
including basements) 

Minimum setback to 
Church Road 

8 storeys provided the site is at least 24 metres wide at 
the front building line. Otherwise, a 4 storey limit applies. 
Council does not allow development to have attics. 
3 metres for the first storey (i.e. the ground floor) and 
second storey, and 6 metres for the remaining storeys. 

Minimum setback to 
the side and rear 
boundaries 

Zero setback for the first storey (i.e. the ground floor) and 
second storey, and remaining storeys must comply with 
the Apartment Design Guide. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

55 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Development 
controls 
Storey limit (not 
including basements) 

Minimum setback to 
Church Road 

Precincts 
Precinct D 
8 storeys provided the site is at least 40 metres wide at 
the front building line and is at least 1,700m2 in area. 
Otherwise, the storey limit in Part B1 applies. Council 
does not allow development to have attics. 
6 metres 

Minimum setback to 
the side and rear 
boundaries 
Special requirements  The storey limit (not including basements) for the 

Must comply with the Apartment Design Guide. 

properties at Nos. 24 & 26 Church Road and Nos. 9 & 10 
Petty Street is 6 storeys. Council does not allow 
development to have attics. 
Precinct E 

Storey limit (not 
including basements) 

6 storeys provided the site is at least 30 metres wide at 
the front building line. Otherwise, the storey limit in Part 
B1 applies. Council does not allow development to have 
attics. 
6 metres 

Minimum setback to 
Auburn Road & The 
Crescent 
Minimum setback to 
the side and rear 
boundaries 
Special requirements  3 storey limit (not including basements) applies to any 

Must comply with the Apartment Design Guide. 

part of a development within a 10 metre setback to The 
Crescent to provide a height and built form transition to 
neighbouring houses. 
Precinct F 

4 storeys provided the site is at least 30 metres wide at 
the front building line. Otherwise, the storey limit in Part 
B1 applies. Council does not allow development to have 
attics. 
6 metres 

Must comply with the Apartment Design Guide. 

Storey limit (not 
including basements) 

Minimum setback to 
Caldwell Parade 

Minimum setback to 
the side and rear 
boundaries 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

56 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Site specific provisions: Nos. 399–403 Hume Highway in Yagoona 

4.3  Council may  apply  the  storey  limit (not  including  basements) shown  in  Figure 
22  to  the  allotments  at  Nos.  399–403  Hume  Highway  in  Yagoona  only  if  it  is 
satisfied that: 

(a)  development  will  consolidate  all  the  allotments  into  a  single  allotment; 

and 

(b)  development  within  20  metres  of  the  Hume  Highway  boundary  of  the 

allotment does not exceed 2 storeys; and 

(c)  development  in  the  remaining  area  of  the  allotment  does  not  exceed  4 
storeys. Council does not allow development with 4 storeys to have attics. 

If  in  Council's  opinion  a  development  does  not  satisfy  this  clause,  a  2  storey 
limit will apply to each allotment. 

4.4  Development must comply with the minimum setbacks shown in Figure 22 and 
must  ensure  a  dwelling  is  setback  a  minimum  20  metres  from  the  Hume 
Highway boundary of the allotment or a road related area (within the meaning 
of the Roads Act 1993) adjoining or associated with the Hume Highway. 

4.5  Commercial  development  adjacent  to  the  Hume  Highway  boundary  of  the 
allotment should consider a 5 metre setback to the Hume Highway boundary of 
the  allotment,  with  preference  given  to  deep  soil  planting  to  enhance  the 
Remembrance Driveway landscape corridor. 

4.6  Development must incorporate the significance of the heritage item at No. 401 

Hume Highway. 

4.7  Vehicle access to the allotment may be permitted from Brancourt Avenue, but 

is not permitted from the Hume Highway. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

57 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure  22:  Proposed  storey  limit  and  setback  controls  for  mixed  use  development 
that  consolidates  the  allotments  at  Nos.  399–403  Hume  Highway  and  No.  81 
Brancourt Avenue in Yagoona into a single allotment. 

Figure  23:  Proposed  storey  limit  for  mixed  use  development  on  the  consolidated 
allotment. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

58 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure  24:  Proposed  building  envelope  for  development  on  the  consolidated 
allotment as viewed from the Hume Highway (not to scale). 

Figure  25:  Proposed  building  envelope  for  development  on  the  consolidated 
allotment as viewed from Alice Park at the rear (not to scale). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

59 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

5.0  Building form (Rookwood Enterprise Zone) 

Explanation 

Good  design  achieves  an  appropriate  building  form  for  sites  in  terms  of  building 
proportions and alignments. An appropriate building form defines the public domain, 
contributes  to  the  streetscape  character  and  provides  good  internal  amenity  to 
residents and workers. 

The  combination  of  Bankstown  LEP  2015  and  this  DCP  determines  the  desired 
building  form  for  the  Rookwood  Enterprise  Zone.  The  LEP  includes  floor  space 
ratios, lot widths and building heights. This section of the DCP contains storey limits, 
setbacks and building design guidelines. 

However, applicants of development proposals must recognise that the combination 
of these controls is not a building, but a three dimensional shape that may determine 
the  bulk  and  siting  of  a  building.  After  allowing  for  building  articulation,  the 
achievable  floor  space  of  a  development  is  likely  to  be  less  than  the  building 
envelope. 

Objectives 

The objectives to achieve the desired character are: 

(a)  To ensure the bulk and density of development is compatible with the location 
of the development to shopping centres and public transport, and the desired 
character of the Hume Highway Corridor. 

(b)  To  provide  the  Hume  Highway  Corridor  with  environments  that  are  safe,  well 

landscaped and achieve high amenity. 

(c)  To  have  a  landscape  buffer  zone  to  the  Hume  Highway  that  enhances  the 
Remembrance  Driveway  landscape  corridor  and  improves  the  amenity  of 
development. 

(d)  To have a minimum setback to the Hume Highway that improves the amenity 

of dwellings in terms of air quality and acoustic privacy. 

(e)  To  encourage  business  activities  and  active  street  frontages  to  the  Hume 

Highway. 

(f)  To  have  appropriate  bulk,  density  and  vehicle  access  that  will  not  have  an 

adverse impact on land in the vicinity of the key development sites. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

60 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Site  specific  provisions:  Nos.  324–364  Hume  Highway,  2–24B  George  Street 
and 2–24 Rookwood Road in Bankstown 

5.1  Council may  apply  the  storey  limit (not  including  basements) shown  in  Figure 

27 to land within Zone B6 Enterprise Corridor only if it is satisfied that: 

(a)  development will consolidate all adjoining allotments shown edged with a 

heavy black line in Figure 26 into a single allotment; and 

(b)  development  will  provide  a  2  storey  buffer  along  the  George  Street 
boundary of an allotment. Council does not allow development with 4 or 
more storeys to have attics. 

If  in  Council's  opinion  a  development  does  not  satisfy  this  clause,  a  2  storey 
limit will apply to each allotment. 

Figure  26:  Council  may  apply  Figure  27  to  land  within  Zone  B6  Enterprise 
Corridor only if it is satisfied that a development consolidates the allotments at 
Nos. 324–326 Hume Highway into a single allotment; Nos. 342 Hume Highway 
and 2–8 George Street into a single allotment; No. 348 Hume Highway into a 
single  allotment;  and  Nos.  350  Hume  Highway  and  18  George  Street  into  a 
single allotment (as shown edged with a heavy black line). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

61 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

5.2  Development  within  Zone  B1  Neighbourhood  Centre  must  comply  with  the 
storey limit shown in Figure 27 and must ensure development does not exceed 
4 storeys. Council does not allow development with 4 storeys to have attics. 

5.3  Development must comply with the minimum setbacks shown in Figure 27 and 

must ensure: 

(a)  dwellings  are  setback  a  minimum  20  metres  from  the  Hume  Highway 
boundary  of  the  allotment  or  a  road  related  area  (within  the  meaning  of 
the Roads Act 1993) adjoining or associated with the Hume Highway; 

(b)  commercial development is setback a minimum 5 metres from the Hume 

Highway boundary of the allotment; and 

(c)  development  provides  appropriate  solar  access  to  neighbouring  land 

within Zone R4 High Density Residential. 

5.4  Development must provide a minimum 5 metre wide landscape buffer zone to 
the  Hume  Highway  boundary  of  the  allotment  to  enhance  the  Remembrance 
Driveway landscape corridor. 

5.5  Vehicle access to the allotments may be permitted from George Street, Davis 

Lane, John Wall Lane and Kearns Lane. 

5.6  Development  on  one  or  more  of  the  allotments  at  Nos.  342–350  Hume 
Highway in Bankstown must create a shared rear lane for vehicle access and 
servicing  purposes.    The  proposed  rear  lane  should  connect  with  John  Wall 
Lane and Kearns Lane as shown in Figure 27. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

62 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure  27:  Proposed  storey  limit  and  setback  controls  for  development  that 
consolidates the allotments at Nos. 324–326 Hume Highway into a single allotment; 
Nos.  342  Hume  Highway  and  2–8  George  Street  into  a  single  allotment;  No.  348 
Hume Highway into a single allotment; and Nos. 350 Hume Highway and 18 George 
Street into a single allotment. 

Figure  28:  Proposed  storey  limit  for  mixed  use  development  on  the  consolidated 
allotments. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

63 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure  29:  Proposed  building  envelope  for  mixed  use  development  on  the 
consolidated allotments as viewed from the Hume Highway (not to scale). 

Figure  30:  Proposed  building  envelope  for  mixed  use  development  on  the 
consolidated allotments as viewed from George Street at the rear (not to scale). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

64 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

6.0  Building form (Greenacre Motor Alley) 

Explanation  

Good  design  achieves  an  appropriate  building  form  for  sites  in  terms  of  building 
proportions and alignments. An appropriate building form defines the public domain, 
contributes  to  the  streetscape  character  and  provides  good  internal  amenity  to 
residents and workers. 

The  combination  of  Bankstown  LEP  2015  and  this  DCP  determines  the  desired 
building form for the Greenacre Motor Alley. The LEP includes floor space ratios, lot 
widths and building heights. This section of the DCP contains storey limits, setbacks 
and building design guidelines. 

However, applicants of development proposals must recognise that the combination 
of these controls is not a building, but a three dimensional shape that may determine 
the  bulk  and  siting  of  a  building.  After  allowing  for  building  articulation,  the 
achievable  floor  space  of  a  development  is  likely  to  be  less  than  the  building 
envelope. 

Objectives 

The objectives to achieve the desired character are: 

(a)  To ensure the bulk and density of development is compatible with the location 
of the development to shopping centres and public transport, and the desired 
character of the Hume Highway Corridor. 

(b)  To  provide  the  Hume  Highway  Corridor  with  environments  that  are  safe,  well 

landscaped and achieve high amenity. 

(c)  To  have  a  landscape  buffer  zone  to  the  Hume  Highway  that  enhances  the 
Remembrance  Driveway  landscape  corridor  and  improves  the  amenity  of 
development. 

(d)  To have a minimum setback to the Hume Highway that improves the amenity 

of dwellings in terms of air quality and acoustic privacy. 

(e)  To  encourage  business  activities  and  active  street  frontages  to  the  Hume 

Highway. 

(f)  To  have  appropriate  bulk,  density  and  vehicle  access  that  will  not  have  an 

adverse impact on land in the vicinity of the key development sites. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

65 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Site specific provisions: Nos. 139–159 Hume Highway in Greenacre 

6.1  Council may  apply  the  storey  limit (not  including  basements) shown  in  Figure 
31 to the allotments at Nos. 139–159 Hume Highway in Greenacre only if it is 
satisfied that: 

(a)  development  will  consolidate  all  the  allotments  into  a  single  allotment; 

and 

(b)  development  within  20  metres  of  the  Hume  Highway  boundary  of  the 

allotment does not exceed 2 storeys; and 

(c)  development  in  the  remaining  area  of  the  allotment  does  not  exceed  4 
storeys. Council does not allow development with 4 storeys to have attics. 

If  in  Council's  opinion  a  development  does  not  satisfy  this  clause,  a  2  storey 
limit will apply to each allotment. 

6.2  Development must comply with the minimum setbacks shown in Figure 31 and 

must ensure: 

(a)  dwellings  are  setback  a  minimum  20  metres  from  the  Hume  Highway 
boundary  of  the  allotment  or  a  road  related  area  (within  the  meaning  of 
the Roads Act 1993) adjoining or associated with the Hume Highway; 

(b)  commercial development is setback a minimum 3 metres from the Hume 

Highway boundary of the allotment; and 

(c)  development  provides  appropriate  solar  access  to  the  existing  dwellings 

that adjoin the side and rear boundaries of the allotment. 

6.3  Development must provide a minimum 3 metre wide landscape buffer zone to 
the  Hume  Highway  boundary  of  the  allotment  to  enhance  the  Remembrance 
Driveway landscape corridor. 

6.4  Vehicle access to the allotment may be permitted from the Hume Highway. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

66 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure  31:  Proposed  storey  limit  and  setback  controls  for  development  that 
consolidates  the  allotments  at  Nos.  139–159  Hume  Highway  in  Greenacre  into  a 
single allotment. 

Figure 32: Proposed storey limit for development on the consolidated allotment. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

67 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure  33:  Proposed  building  envelope  for  development  on  the  consolidated 
allotment as viewed from the Hume Highway (not to scale). 

Figure 34: Proposed building envelope for development on the consolidated site as 
viewed from Cahill Lane at the rear (not to scale). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

68 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Site specific provisions: Nos. 165–185 Hume Highway and 74 Tennyson Road 
in Greenacre 

6.5  Council may  apply  the  storey  limit (not  including  basements) shown  in  Figure 
35 to the allotments at Nos. 165–185 Hume Highway and 74 Tennyson Road 
in Greenacre only if it is satisfied that: 

(a)  development  will  consolidate  all  the  allotments  into  a  single  allotment; 

and 

(b)  development  within  20  metres  of  the  Hume  Highway  boundary  of  the 

allotment does not exceed 2 storeys; and 

(c)  development  in  the  remaining  area  of  the  allotment  does  not  exceed  4 
storeys. Council does not allow development with 4 storeys to have attics. 

If  in  Council's  opinion  a  development  does  not  satisfy  this  clause,  a  2  storey 
limit will apply to each allotment. 

6.6  Development must comply with the minimum setbacks shown in Figure 35 and 

must ensure: 

(a)  dwellings  are  setback  a  minimum  20  metres  from  the  Hume  Highway 
boundary  of  the  allotment  or  a  road  related  area  (within  the  meaning  of 
the Roads Act 1993) adjoining or associated with the Hume Highway; 

(b)  commercial development is setback a minimum 5 metres from the Hume 

Highway boundary of the allotment; and 

(c)  development  provides  appropriate  solar  access  to  the  existing  dwellings 

that adjoin the side and rear boundaries of the allotment. 

6.7  Development must provide a minimum 5 metre wide landscape buffer zone to 
the  Hume  Highway  boundary  of  the  allotment  to  enhance  the  Remembrance 
Driveway landscape corridor. 

6.8  Vehicle access to the allotment may be permitted from Tennyson Road and the 

Hume Highway. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

69 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure  35:  Proposed  storey  limit  and  setback  controls  for  development  that 
consolidates  the  allotments  at  Nos.  165–185  Hume  Highway  and  74  Tennyson 
Road in Greenacre into a single allotment. 

Figure 36: Proposed storey limit for development on the consolidated allotment. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

70 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure  37:  Proposed  building  envelope  for  development  on  the  consolidated 
allotment as viewed from the Hume Highway (not to scale). 

Figure  38:  Proposed  building  envelope  for  development  on  the  consolidated 
allotment as viewed from Peter Crescent at the rear (not to scale). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

71 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Site  specific  provisions:  Nos.  225–243A  Hume  Highway,  112  Northcote  Road 
and 24 Hillcrest Avenue in Greenacre 

6.9  Council may apply the storey limit (not including basements) shown in Figure 
39 to the allotments at Nos. 225–243A Hume Highway, 112 Northcote Road, 
and 24 Hillcrest Avenue in Greenacre only if it is satisfied that: 

(a)  development  will  consolidate  all  the  allotments  into  a  single  allotment; 

and 

(b)  development  within  20  metres  of  the  Hume  Highway  boundary  of  the 

allotment does not exceed 2 storeys; and 

(c)  development  in  the  remaining  area  of the  allotment does not exceed  4 
storeys.  Council  does  not  allow  development  with  4  storeys  to  have 
attics. 

If in Council's opinion a development does not satisfy this clause, a 2 storey 
limit will apply to each allotment. 

6.10  Development  must  comply  with  the  minimum  setbacks  shown  in  Figure  39 

and must ensure: 

(a)  dwellings  are  setback  a  minimum  20  metres  from  the  Hume  Highway 
boundary of the allotment or a road related area (within the meaning of 
the Roads Act 1993) adjoining or associated with the Hume Highway; 

(b)  commercial development is setback a minimum 5 metres from the Hume 

Highway boundary of the allotment; and 

(c)  development provides appropriate solar access to the existing dwellings 

that adjoin the side and rear boundaries of the allotment. 

6.11  Development must provide a minimum 5 metre wide landscape buffer zone to 
the Hume Highway boundary of the allotment to enhance the Remembrance 
Driveway landscape corridor. 

6.12  Vehicle  access  to  the  allotment  may  be  permitted  from  Northcote  Road  or 

Hillcrest Avenue and the Hume Highway. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

72 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure  39:  Proposed  storey  limit  and  setback  controls  for  a  development  that 
consolidates the allotments at Nos. 225–243A Hume Highway, 112 Northcote Road 
and 24 Hillcrest Avenue in Greenacre into a single allotment. 

Figure 40: Proposed storey limit for development on the consolidated allotment. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

73 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure  41:  Proposed  building  envelope  for  development  on  the  consolidated 
allotment as viewed from the Hume Highway (not to scale). 

Figure  42:  Proposed  building  envelope  for  development  on  the  consolidated 
allotment as viewed from Hillcrest Avenue at the rear (not to scale). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

74 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Site specific provisions: Nos. 315 Hume Highway and 177–183 Banksia Road 
in Bankstown 

6.13  Council may apply the storey limit (not including basements) shown in Figure 
43 to the allotments at Nos. 315 Hume Highway and 177–183 Banksia Road 
in Bankstown only if it is satisfied that: 

(a)  development  will  consolidate  all  the  allotments  into  a  single  allotment; 

and 

(b)  development  will  achieve  appropriate  vehicle  access  to  the  single 

allotment from the Hume Highway, and not from Banksia Road; 

(c)  development  adjoining  the  Banksia  Road  boundary  of  the  allotment 

does not exceed 2 storeys; 

(d)  development  adjacent  to  the Hume  Highway  boundary  of the  allotment 

does not exceed 4 storeys; and 

(e)  development  adjacent  to  the  Stacey  Street  boundary  of  the  allotment 

does not exceed 5 storeys; and 

(f) 

development  in  the  remaining  area  of the  allotment does not exceed  3 
storeys. Council does not allow development  with 4 or more storeys to 
have attics. 

If in Council's opinion a development does not satisfy this clause, a 2 storey 
limit will apply to each allotment. 

6.14  The storey limit for commercial development is 2 storeys. 

6.15  Development must provide a minimum 5 metre wide landscape buffer zone to 
the Hume Highway and Stacey Street boundaries of the allotment to enhance 
the Remembrance Driveway landscape corridor. 

6.16  The minimum setback for commercial development to the Hume Highway and 

Stacey Street boundaries of the allotment is 5 metres. 

6.17  Residential  development  must  comply  with  the  minimum  setbacks  shown  in 
Figure 43 and must ensure a dwelling is setback a minimum 20 metres from 
the Hume Highway or a road related area (within the meaning of the Roads 
Act 1993) adjoining or associated with the Hume Highway and Stacey Street 
boundaries of the allotment. 

6.18  Commercial  development  or  landscape  buffer  zone  or  indoor  communal 
space should occupy the minimum 20 metre setback for dwellings to act as a 
buffer between the dwellings and the Hume Highway/Stacey Street. 

6.19  Vehicle  access  to  the  allotment  may  be  permitted  from  the  Hume  Highway, 

but is not permitted from Banksia Road. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

75 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure  43:  Proposed  storey  limit  and  setback  controls  for  residential  development 
that consolidates the allotments at Nos. 315 Hume Highway and 177–183 Banksia 
Road in Bankstown into a single allotment and achieves satisfactory vehicle access 
from the Hume Highway. 

Figure 44: Proposed storey limit for the consolidated allotment. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

76 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure  45:  Proposed  building  envelope  for  development  on  the  consolidated 
allotment as viewed from the Hume Highway (not to scale). 

Figure  46:  Proposed  building  envelope  for  development  on  the  consolidated 
allotment as viewed from Banksia Road at the rear (not to scale). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

77 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown 
Development 
Control 
Plan 2015 

PART A3 

KEY INFILL 
DEVELOPMENT 
SITES 

 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

CONTENTS 

Section 1 

Introduction   

Section 2 

Nos. 330–368 The River Road in Picnic Point 

Section 3 

No. 80 Miller Road in Villawood 

Section 4 

Nos. 30–46 Auburn Road in Regents Park 

Section 5 

Potts Hill Reservoirs Site 

3 

4 

8 

13 

16 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 1–INTRODUCTION 

Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015 is Council's principal planning document 
to  regulate  effective  and  orderly  development  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.    The  LEP 
provides  objectives,  zones  and  development  standards  such  as  lot  sizes  and  floor 
space ratios. 

Part  A3  of  Bankstown  Development  Control  Plan  2015  supplements  the  LEP  by 
providing  additional  objectives  and  development  controls  to  enhance  the  function 
and  liveability  of  key  infill  development  sites  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.    The 
development controls include storey limits, setbacks and building design. 

Applicants must note: 

(a)  Development  must  comply  with  the  other  development  controls  of  this  DCP.  
However if applicable to a development application, the development controls 
of Part A3 will prevail  if there is an inconsistency with any other development 
controls in this DCP. 

(b)  Council  applies  the  design  quality  principles  of  State  Environmental  Planning 
Policy  No  65–Design  Quality  of  Residential  Apartment  Development  and  the 
Apartment  Design  Guide  to  residential  flat  buildings,  shop  top  housing, 
serviced apartments, boarding houses and mixed use development (containing 
dwellings).  This includes buildings that are two storeys or less, or contain less 
than four dwellings. 

(c)  A building envelope is not a building, but a three dimensional shape that may 
determine  the  bulk  and  siting  of  a  building.    After  allowing  for  building 
articulation,  the  achievable  floor  space  of  a  development  is  likely  to  be  less 
than the building envelope. 

Objectives 

The objectives of Part A3 of this DCP are: 

(a)  To  have  development  that  is  compatible  with  the  desired  character  of  the 

particular key infill development site. 

(b)  To  have  development  that  achieves  good  urban  design  in  terms  of  building 

form, bulk, architectural treatment and visual amenity. 

(c)  To have development that provides adequate amenity to people who live in the 

particular key infill development site. 

(d)  To  have  transitional  areas  that  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing  suburban 

character and amenity of neighbouring residential environments. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 2–NOS. 330–368 THE RIVER ROAD IN PICNIC POINT 

Desired character objective 

To have infill residential development at the site known as Nos. 330–368 The River 
Road in Picnic Point that is compatible with the character of Zone R2 Low Density 
Residential and the riparian zone along Morgan’s Creek. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the desired character objective are: 

Dwelling yield 

2.1  The maximum number of dwellings permissible on the site is 58 based on site 

constraints. 

2.2  Development  on  the  site  must  be  consistent  with  the  following  information 

submitted with the initial residential development application: 

(a)  The contamination report detailing how the site is to be made suitable for 
residential  use.    Construction  works  for  any  proposed  residential 
development must not commence until an accredited site auditor advises 
Council that the land is suitable for residential use. 

(b)  The  detailed  assessment  of  the  cliff  face  prepared  by  a  practising 
Geotechnical  Engineer  as  the  stability  of  the  cliff  face  may  pose  a 
potential  safety  hazard  unless  properly  managed.    In  addition,  the  site 
has  been  filled  up  to  5  metres  in  some  areas  and  normal  foundation 
systems may be inappropriate. 

(c)  The geotechnical report recommending suitable footing designs required 
for  proposed  dwellings,  and  a  setback  distance  from  the  bank  of 
Morgan’s Creek so as to protect buildings from bank instability caused by 
natural erosion within the watercourse. 

(d)  The  detailed  tree  survey  to  retain  existing  significant  trees  and  trees 
within  the  landscape  protection  area  facing  Thomas  Street  identified  on 
Figure 1 as part of the communal open space for the development along 
with the cliff top area.  The site also contains vegetation that is typical of a 
Sydney  sandstone  gully  forest  community.    Development  will  need  to 
protect this vegetation (consistent with the need to remediate the site and 
to reconsolidate past land filling). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 1: Site known as Nos. 330–368 The River Road in Picnic Point. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(e)  The  traffic  study  assessing  the  impact  on  the  existing  road  system 
including traffic safety in Thomas Street and at the intersection of Thomas 
Street  and  The  River  Road.    The  final  development  is  to  incorporate 
traffic  calming  measures  in  Thomas  Street  where  required  by  Council, 
and must allow for the installation of measures if it requires the dedication 
of  part  of  the  site  to  accommodate  greater  carriageway  capacity.    All 
costs  associated  with  the  provision  of  traffic  calming  devices  and 
carriageway widening must be borne by the applicant. 

(f)  The  Environmental  Management  Plan  detailing  the  extent  to  which 
development  will  impact  on  the  site  both  during  construction  and  after 
occupation. 

Riparian zone 

2.3  The  site  must  establish  a  riparian  zone  along  Morgan’s  Creek  with  the 

following intended outcomes: 

(a)  Council  is  to  landscape  the  riparian  zone  with  original  tree,  shrub  and 

groundcover species propagated from local genetic stock. 

(b)  Development  is  to  be  excluded  within  the  riparian  zone,  including  the 
construction  of  buildings,  flood  detention  basins,  water  quality  treatment 
controls, utilities, recreational facilities and where possible public access 
pathways.    Such  development  should  locate  at  the  outside  edge  of  the 
riparian zone (furthest from the creek) or beyond it. 

2.4  Development on the site must include evidence that it will not have an adverse 
impact  on  the  water  quality  of  the  Morgan’s  Creek,  the  stability  of  the  creek 
banks  or  the  vegetation  that  grows  along  the  creek  bank.    In  particular, 
stormwater  discharging  from  all  internal  sealed  areas  to  the  Creek  must  be 
directed  through  continuous  deflection  separators,  non–scouring  oil  and 
sediment  separators, sand filters or  an  artificial  wetland  to  a  design  accepted 
by Council. 

2.5  All buildings must be setback a minimum 10 metres from the boundary of the 
site  (as  shown  in Figure  1)  where  it adjoins Morgan’s  Creek.    The  use  of  the 
land within this setback must be limited to (public or private) open space and 
landscaping  works.    All  landscaping  within  this  area  must  be  carried  out  in 
accordance  with  a  landscape  plan  approved  by  Council.    This  plan  must 
specify planting that is indigenous to the Morgan’s Creek corridor. 

Access 

2.6  The applicant of the initial residential development application must provide a 
pedestrian path approximately 650 metres in length, linking The River Road to 
Thomas Street within the site (as shown in Figure 1) as a condition of consent.  
This path is required to allow public access from residential areas east of The 
River  Road  to  the  Morgan’s  Creek  open  space  area  to  the  south–west  of  the 
site. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2.7  Vehicle access must be limited to a driveway or roadway adjacent to the land 
known  as  No.  112  Thomas  Street.    Access  into  the  site  for  Council  waste 
vehicles  must  be  provided  via  either  a  public  road  or  an  internal  driveway 
system.  If an internal driveway is used, adequate turning area and protection 
for  any  liability  caused  by  waste  vehicles  damaging  road  pavements  must be 
provided and referred to in the articles of association of any strata plans. 

Infrastructure 

2.8  Given  existing  problems  with  sewer  overflows  and  water  pressure, 
development  on  the  site  must  satisfy  Council  that  it  will  not  adversely  affect 
existing service levels for neighbouring residents. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 3–NO. 80 MILLER ROAD IN VILLAWOOD 

Desired character objective 

To  have  infill  residential  development  at  the  site  known  as  No.  80  Miller  Road  in 
Villawood that is compatible with the character of Zone R2 Low Density Residential 
while allowing smaller lots in some areas. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the desired character objective are: 

Setbacks and open space 

3.1  Where the lot size is a minimum 200m2, the following controls apply: 

(a) 

the  minimum  setback  for  a  building  wall  to  the  primary  road  frontage  is 
5.5 metres; 

(b) 

the  minimum  setback  for  a  building  wall  to  the  side  boundary  of  a  lot  is 
1.5  metres  with  the  exception  of  central  lots  which  may  have  a  zero 
setback to the side boundary; 

(c) 

the minimum setback for a building wall to the rear boundary of a lot is 5 
metres; and 

(d) 

the minimum private open space per dwelling is 60m2, with the minimum 
dimension of 5 metres x 5 metres within one area located behind the front 
setback,  and  should  be  contiguous  with  a  major  living  area  of  the 
dwelling.    The  remaining  of  the  open  space  may  be  located  within  the 
front  setback  area  provided  that  all  courtyard  fences  within  the  setback 
are of open style. 

3.2  Where the lot size is a minimum 250m2, the following controls apply: 

(a) 

the  minimum  setback  for  a  building  wall  to  the  primary  road  frontage  is 
5.5 metres; 

(b) 

the  minimum  setback  for  a  building  wall  to  the  side  boundary  is  1.5 
metres  to  one  side  boundary  and  zero  setback  to  the  other  side 
boundary; 

(c) 

the minimum setback for a building wall to the rear boundary of a lot is 5 
metres; and 

(d) 

the minimum private open space per dwelling is 60m2, with the minimum 
dimension of 5 metres x 5 metres within one area located behind the front 
setback,  and  should  be  contiguous  with  a  major  living  area  of  the 
dwelling. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

The remaining of the open space may be located within the front setback 
area  provided  that  all  courtyard  fences  within  the  setback  are  of  open 
style. 

3.3  Where the lot size is a minimum 350m2, the following controls apply: 

(a) 

the  minimum  setback  for  a  building  wall  to  the  primary  road  frontage  is 
5.5 metres; 

(b) 

the minimum setback for a building wall to the side boundary is 2 metres; 

(c) 

the minimum setback for a building wall to the rear boundary of a lot is 5 
metres; and 

(d) 

the minimum private open space per dwelling is 80m2, with the minimum 
dimension of 5 metres x 5 metres within one area located behind the front 
setback,  and  should  be  contiguous  with  a  major  living  area  of  the 
dwelling.    The  remaining  of  the  open  space  may  be  located  within  the 
front  setback  area  provided  that  all  courtyard  fences  within  the  setback 
are of open style. 

Open space network 

3.4  The  site  must  provide  a  network  of  open  space  and  pedestrian  pathways  as 

shown in Figure 3–Open Space Network and must ensure: 

(a) 

the minimum area of open space in Zone R2 Low Density Residential is 
not less than 8,500m2; and 

(b) 

the site provides a main area of open space forming a village green and 
featuring as a focal point along the central north–south axis. 

3.5  Development must ensure fences comply with the following: 

(a)  Miller Road–metal palisade fence with masonry piers 1.5 metres high. 

(b)  Village Green frontage to residences–metal palisade fence with masonry 

piers 1.2 metres high. 

(c)  Along the industrial access road and to the commercial/industrial precinct 

perimeter–security fencing, nominally 1.8 metres high. 

(d)  Endangered  ecological  community  area–timber  posts  and  wire  fencing, 

0.9 metre high. 

(e)  Remaining  fences–mixture  of  metal  palisade  and  lapped  and  capped 

paling fences as per the requirements of Part B1 of this DCP. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(f)  No solid fence will be allowed within the front setback area.  Any privacy 
fence to enclose private open space within the front yard is to be of open 
style as stipulated above. 

3.6  Development  must  retain  the  remnant  vegetation/endangered  ecological 
community  area  (known  as  the  Cooks  River/Castlereagh  Ironbark  Forest)  in 
the south–east corner of the site and must: 

(a) 

fence  the  community  area  with  a  log  barrier  or  low  fence  following 
construction to Council’s satisfaction to minimise disturbance to this area; 
and 

(b)  comply  with 

the  Community  Management  Plan 
management and maintenance of the community area. 

for 

the 

future 

Acoustic privacy and contamination 

3.7  Development  must  incorporate  the  following  to  mitigate  potential  noise 

impacts: 

(a)  a 130 metre buffer zone along the southern boundary of the subdivision; 

(b)  a  3  metre  high  acoustic  screen  barrier  constructed  along  the  industrial 
boundary  or  a  barrier  incorporated  in  the  building  design  in  Zone  B5 
Business Development; 

(c)  purpose built housing and building noise control treatments for dwellings 

exposed to the industrial land to the south; and 

(d)  noise control treatments for dwellings exposed to Miller Road. 

3.8  Development  must  comply  with  the  Site  Audit  Statement  confirming  that  the 

site is suitable for the intended use. 

Access 

3.9  Vehicular egress  and  ingress  to  the  Zone  R2  Low  Density  Residential  part  of 
the  site  is  to  be  from  Miller  Road  as  shown  in  Figure  4.    The  ownership  and 
maintenance of all future roads will be the responsibility of future landowners. 

3.10  The design of internal road widths and manoeuvring paths must accommodate 
large  vehicles,  including  emergency  vehicles,  garbage  and  delivery  vehicles.  
All  internal  road  reserves  must  also  accommodate  footpaths,  on  street  visitor 
parking, street tree planting and services. 

3.11  A roundabout is to be constructed at the intersection of Curtis Road and Miller 
Road and entry to the site to accommodate anticipated traffic flows and to slow 
traffic in general. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 1: Development concept plan. 

Figure 2: Landscape plan. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 3: Open space network. 

Figure 4: Access to site. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 4–NOS. 30–46 AUBURN ROAD IN REGENTS PARK 

Desired character objective 

To have infill residential development at the site known as Nos. 30–46 Auburn Road 
in Regents Park that is compatible with the character of the neighbouring Zone R2 
Low Density Residential and railway corridor. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the desired character objective are: 

Dwelling yield 

4.1  The maximum number of dwellings permissible on the site is 85. 

Storey limit (not including basements) 

4.2  The storey limit is 3 storeys with the exception of the dwellings fronting Auburn 
Road where the storey limit is 2 storeys, generally in accordance with Figure 1. 

4.3  Development may contain attics provided: 

(a) 

the attic does not give the external appearance of a storey; and 

(b) 

the pitch of the roof creating the space does not exceed 35 degrees; and 

(c) 

the external enclosing walls do not exceed a height of 300mm measured 
vertically from the floor level of the attic, but does not include gabled end 
walls; and 

(d) 

there is no balcony, terrace, and the like forming part of the attic; and 

(e) 

the attic accommodates no more than two small rooms (for the purposes 
of  a  bedroom  and/or  study)  and  an  ensuite  plus  an  internal  link  to  the 
storey below; and 

(f) 

the  gross  floor  area  of  the  attic  does  not  exceed  60%  of  the  gross  floor 
area of the storey immediately below; and 

(g)  one or more dormers may form part of the attic. 

4.4  The design of dormers must: 

(a)  must be compatible with the scale, form, and pitch of the roof; and 

(b)  must not project above the ridgeline of the main roof; and 

(c)  must not exceed a width of 2 metres; and 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(d) 

the number of dormers must not dominate the roof plane. 

Setbacks 

4.5  Development  must  achieve  the  following  minimum  setbacks  subject  to 

appropriate acoustic treatment: 

(a)  minimum 1 metre setback to the railway boundary; and 

(b)  minimum 10 metre setback for dwellings to the northern boundary.  The 
setback area must be common facilities only, including road, driveway or 
open space. 

Access 

4.6  Vehicular  egress  and  ingress  on  the  site  must  be  from  Auburn  Road  and  be 
facilitated  by  traffic  management  devices  to  minimise  the  impact  upon  the 
existing Auburn Road traffic flow and appropriately accommodate traffic flows 
from  the  site  into  Auburn  Road.    All  costs  associated  with  the  provision  of 
pedestrian  protection  measures  and  traffic  management  devices  must  be 
borne by the applicant. 

Acoustic privacy 

4.7  The  consent  authority  must  be  satisfied  that  mitigation  measures  to  control 
road and rail noise and vibration have been incorporated into the development 
so that the development complies with the following: 

(a)  AS/NZS 2107:2000, Acoustics—Recommended design sound levels and 

reverberation times for building interiors, 

(b)  AS  3671—1989,  Acoustics—Road  traffic  noise  intrusion—Building  siting 

and construction, 

(c)  BS  6472:1992,  Guide  to  evaluation  of  human  exposure  to  vibration  in 

buildings (I Hz to 80 Hz), 

(d)  Environmental  criteria  for  road  traffic  noise  (an  Environment  Protection 

Authority document published in May 1999), 

(e) 

Interim Guidelines for Councils: Consideration of Rail Noise and Vibration 
in  the  Planning  Process  (a  joint  document  of  the  Rail  Infrastructure 
Corporation and the State Rail Authority published in November 2003). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 1: Site known as Nos. 30–46 Auburn Road in Regents Park. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 5–POTTS HILL RESERVOIRS SITE 

Desired character objective 

To guide the development of the Potts Hill Reservoirs site to ensure that high quality 
built  form  and  urban  design  outcomes  is  realised  within  the  approved  subdivision 
layout  for  the  Western  Residential  Precinct.    The  development  controls  aim  to 
achieve a generally consistent built form across the precinct. 

This  section  applies 
for  dwelling  houses,  dual 
occupancies,  attached  dwellings,  residential  flat  buildings  and  community  housing 
development that are identified within specific areas shown on the Land Application 
Map. 

to  residential  development 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the desired character objective are: 

Dwelling houses 

Site coverage (Figure 1) 

•  Lots 450m2 and over: 

Maximum 50% for two storey dwelling houses, 
maximum 60% for single storey dwelling houses. 

•  Lots less than 450m2: 

Maximum 60%. 

Maximum floor area 

•  Maximum 330m2 for all lots. 

Storey limit (Figure 2) 

•  Maximum two storey limit. 

Front setback (Figure 3) 

•  Minimum 4.5 metres. 

Articulation zone (Figure 4) 

•  1.5 metres beyond front building line and a maximum 

25% of building width. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Side setbacks (Figure 5) 

•  Lots up to 18 metres wide: 

0.9 metre to 5.5 metres in height then above that 
height 0.9 metre plus 1/4 the height over 5.5 metres. 

•  Lots over 18 metres wide: 

1.5 metres to 5.5 metres in height then above that 
height 1.5 metre plus 1/4 the height over 5.5 metres. 

Rear setbacks (Figure 6) 

•  Detached front access house lots: Minimum 3 metres 
for single storey with a rear wall height of up to 4.5 
metres high, otherwise a minimum 8 metres applies. 

•  Detached front access house lots less than 30 metres 
deep at any point perpendicular to the front boundary: 
Minimum 3 metre setback for single storey with a rear 
wall height up to 4.5 metres high, otherwise a 
minimum 6 metres applies. 

•  Rear setbacks for lots along the western boundary of 
the precinct:  An additional 3 metres in the form of the 
‘landscaped area’ results in rear setbacks for these 
lots being a minimum 6 metres for single storey with a 
rear wall of up to 4.5 metres high, otherwise a 
minimum 11 metres applies. 

•  Rear access lots: minimum 1 metre setback to rear 

lane for garages and accessory dwellings if applicable. 

Secondary Road Setbacks (Figure 7) 

•  Detached house corner lots: 

Minimum 3 metre setback to the secondary street 
boundary. 

•  Dual frontage lots: 

Minimum 4.5 metre setback to the secondary street 
boundary. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Landscaping (Figure 8) 

•  The minimum landscaped area is: 

(a)  Lots 300–450m2: 

Minimum 15% of total lot. 

(b)  Lots 450–600m2: 

Minimum 20% of total lot. 

(c)  Lots 600–900m2: 

Minimum 30% of total lot. 

•  The minimum dimension of a landscaped area is 1.5 

metres. 

•  At least 50% of the landscaped area is to be located 

behind the front building line. 

•  For lots less than 18 metre wide at least 25% of the 

area to the front of the building line must be 
landscaped. 

•  For lots at least 18 metre wide at least 50% of the area 
to the front of the building line must be landscaped. 

Private open space 

•  The minimum area for the principal private open space 

is 24m2, at least 4 metres wide, flat and directly 
accessible from a living room. 

Car Parking and Access (Figure 9) 

•  All dwelling houses are to provide at least one off–

street car parking space. 

•  A car parking space may comprise of a garage, car 

port or open car parking space. 

•  Front access car parking spaces are required to be 
setback at least 5.5 metres from the road boundary. 

•  Front access car parking spaces are required to be 

setback at least 1 metre behind the front building line. 

•  Rear access car parking spaces require 1m setback 

from the rear lane boundary. 

•  On corner lots, side access car parking spaces are 
required to be setback at least 3 metres from the 
secondary street boundary. 

•  On double frontage lots the car parking can be located 

on either frontage but not on both. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Maximum Garage Door Width 

•  Maximum garage door width varies with lot size: 

(a)  8–12m lot width: 3.2 metres. 
(b)  Over 12 metre lot width: 6 metres. 

•  Corner lots and dual frontage lots with car parking access from the secondary street 

to have a maximum garage door width of 6 metres. 

Earthworks and drainage 

•  Excavation for basements: 

(a)  Excavation permitted under the building footprint to provide a basement. 
(b)  Maximum floor area for basement is 45m2. 

•  Excavation outside the building footprint: 

(a)  The maximum depth of excavation on a site outside the building footprint is 1 

metre and must not extend more than 2 metres beyond the external wall of the 
dwelling house or ancillary development. 

(b)  Excavation associated with swimming pools must not exceed the depth of the 

pool structure. 

•  Fill associated with the dwelling or garage must be contained within the external walls 
of the building or by a retaining wall with a height no greater than 1500mm above 
existing ground level. 

•  Retaining walls: 

(a)  Retaining walls to be no greater than 1 metre high. 
(b)  Retaining walls not associated with the cut and fill from a dwelling or garage must 
have a height above or below existing ground level not exceeding 0.6 metre if 
located less than 0.5 metre from a side or rear boundary, or 1 metre if located at 
least 1 metre from a boundary. 

•  For drainage requirements refer to the Bankstown Development Engineering 

Standards Policy, with the exception of Section 10 of these Development Standards.  
The Potts Hill Residential Precinct is designed to accommodate precinct wide on–site 
stormwater detention, located at various locations across the precinct.  Accordingly, 
individual lot on–site detention is not required. 

Fences 

•  A front fence is to be provided on all detached dwelling lots. 

•  Fences in the front setback area from a primary road are to be maximum 1.2 metres 

high and a minimum 50% open construction. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

•  Other fences to be maximum 1.8 metres high. 

•  The maximum height permitted for the fence is to be calculated from ground level at 

that point. 

•  Front side fences to extend 2 metres back from the front building line, and should 

match the front fence height and design. 

•  On corner lots, the front fencing is to continue around the corner to the secondary 

street frontage for a minimum 30% of the lot length. 

•  Metal fencing not permitted forward of the front building line. 

Eaves 

•  Eaves are required on all external walls. 

•  Eaves to be at least 450mm from the fascia. 

Passive Surveillance 

•  A living area must be located so as to look over the primary street to provide passive 

surveillance. 

•  The main pedestrian entry of the dwelling is to be visible from the street. 

Subdivision 

•  Subdivision of detached dwelling lots not permitted. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Dual Occupancies and Attached Dwellings 

Site coverage (Figure 10) 

•  For lots a minimum 6 metres wide and 200m2 or more 

in area:  
Maximum site coverage varies with lot size: 
200–250m2: 65% 
250–300m2: 60% 
300–450m2: 55% 

•  For lots less than 6 metres wide and/or less than 

200m2 in area: 
Maximum 80% permitted as long as other controls, 
such as landscape requirements, are met. 

Maximum floor area 

•  For lots a minimum 6 metres wide and 200m2 or more 

in area: 
Maximum floor area varies with lot size:  
200–250m2: 90% 
250–300m2: 85% 
300–450m2: 270m2 

•  For lots less than 6 metres wide and/or less than 

200m2 in area: 
No specified maximum floor area applies as long as 
other controls are met. 

Storey limit 

•  Maximum two storey limit. 

Front setback (Figure 11) 

•  Dual occupancy dwelling: minimum 4.5 metres. 

•  Attached dwelling: minimum 2 metres. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Articulation Zone 

Dual occupancy dwelling: 
•  Within the front setback of a new dual occupancy dwelling an 'articulation zone' may 

be incorporated. 

•  This zone is a notional area projecting 1.5 metres forward of the front building line 
within which additional building elements such as entry features and porticos, 
balconies, decks, verandahs and bay windows may be built. 

•  Up to 25% of the articulation zone, when viewed from above, may include building 
elements. An awning or other feature over a window and a sun shading feature are 
not included in the maximum area of the building element in the articulation zone. 

Attached dwelling: 
•  No articulation zone is permitted. 

For all lots: 
•  A new dwelling must have a window to a living room or a bedroom facing the primary 

road (and the secondary road if on a corner lot). 

•  A new dwelling must have a front door facing the primary road (and/or the secondary 

road if on a corner lot).  

•  Lots facing pedestrian link should have a front door facing the public open space. 

Side Setbacks (Figure 12) 

Dual occupancy dwelling: 
•  Up to 4.5m building height: 0.9 metre. 
•  Over 4.5m building height: 0.9 metre + 1/4 height 

above 4.5 metres. 

•  Option to build to one side boundary with full height 
zero setback as long as it either matches adjacent 
property boundary wall or is a maximum 3.3 metres 
high.  The maximum length of the boundary wall to be 
the lesser of 20 metres or 50% of lot depth, or match 
adjoining built to boundary wall. 

Attached dwelling (Figure 12): 
•  Option to build to one or both side boundaries with full 

height zero setback as long as it either matches 
adjacent property boundary wall or is a maximum 3.3 
metres high.  The maximum length of the boundary 
wall to be the lesser of 20 metres or 50% of lot depth, 
or match adjoining built to boundary wall. 

•  2 metre minimum separation between terrace house 

groups. 

•  1 metre minimum side setback on unattached sides. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Rear Setbacks (Figure 13) 

•  Dual occupancy dwellings: 

Minimum rear setback varies with lot size: 
200–300m2 up to 4.5m building height : 3 metres 
200–300m2 above 4.5m building height : average of 
rear setbacks of adjoining dwelling houses or 3 
metres, whichever is the lesser 
300–600m2 up to 4.5m building height : 3 metres 
300–600m2 above 4.5m building height : 8 metres 

•  Attached dwelling: 

1 metre minimum setback to rear lane for garages and 
secondary dwellings. 

Secondary Road Setbacks 

•  A dwelling house on a corner lot must be set back a 

minimum 2 metres from the secondary street 
boundary. 

Landscaping 

•  Minimum dimension of landscaped area is 1.5 metres. 

•  Dual occupancy dwellings: 

•  Minimum landscaped area varies with lot size: 

200–300m2: 10% 
300–450m2: 15% 
450–600m2: 20% 

•  At least 50% of landscaped area must be located 

behind the front building line. 

•  Attached dwelling (Figure 14): 

Minimum 5% of the total lot area must be landscaped 
area. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Outdoor living area 

•  Outdoor living areas should be directly accessible from a living area. 

•  Dual occupancy dwellings: 

Minimum private open space requirement varies with lot size and width: 
200–300m2: 16m2 
300–600m2: 24m2 
6–10m wide lot: Minimum 3 metres wide 
Over 10m wide lot : Minimum 4 metres wide 

•  Attached dwelling: 

A minimum area of 16m2 and a minimum 3 metres wide. 

Car Parking and Access 

•  All dwelling houses to provide at least one off–street car parking space. 

•  A car parking space may comprise of a garage, car port or open car parking space. 

•  Front access car parking spaces are required to be setback at least 5.5m from the 

road boundary. 

•  Front access car parking spaces are required to be setback at least 1m behind the 

front building line. 

•  All lots with rear lane access are to locate the car parking accessed directly from that 

lane. 

Maximum Garage Door Width 

•  Dual occupancy dwellings: Maximum garage door width varies with lot width: 

8–12m lot width : 3.2 metres 
Over 12m lot width : 6 metres 

•  Attached dwelling: Garage doors on rear access lots to have a maximum width of 6 

metres. 

•  Corner  lots  with  car  parking  access  from  the  secondary  street  to  have  a  maximum 

garage door width of 6 metres. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Earthworks and drainage 

•  Excavation for basements: 

(a)  Excavation permitted under the building footprint to provide a basement. 
(b)  Maximum floor area for basement varies with lot width: 

Lots 10 metres wide or less: 25m2 
Lots over 10 metres wide: 45m2 

•  Excavation outside the building footprint: 

(a)  The maximum depth of excavation on a site outside the building footprint is 1 

metre and must not extend more than 2 metres beyond the external wall of the 
dwelling house or ancillary development. 

(b)  Excavation associated with swimming pools must not exceed the depth of the 

pool structure. 

• 

Fill associated with the dwelling or garage must be contained within the external 
walls of the building or by a retaining wall with a height no greater than 600mm 
above existing ground level. 

•  Retaining walls: 

(a)  Retaining walls to be no greater than 1 metre high. 
(b)  Retaining walls not associated with the cut and fill from a dwelling or garage must 
have a height above or below existing ground level not exceeding 0.6 metre if 
located less than 0.5 metre from a side or rear boundary, or 1 metre if located at 
least 0.5 metre from a boundary. 

•  For drainage requirements refer to the Bankstown Development Engineering 

Standards Policy, with the exception of Section 10 of these Development Standards.  
The Potts Hill Residential Precinct is designed to accommodate precinct wide on–site 
stormwater detention, located at various locations across the precinct.  Accordingly, 
individual lot on–site detention is not required. 

Facade Design 

•  The design of a dual occupancy must adopt an asymmetrical design to provide each 

dwelling with an individual identity when viewed from the street. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

26 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Fences (Figure 15) 

•  A front fence is to be provided on all attached dwelling 

lots. 

•  Fences in the front setback area from a primary road 
are to be maximum 1.2 metres high and a minimum 
50% open construction, other fences to be maximum 
1.8 metres high.  The maximum height permitted for 
the fence is to be calculated from the finished ground 
level. 

•  Front side fences on detached sides to extend 2 

metres back from the front facade, and should match 
the front fence height and design. 

•  On corner lots, the front fencing is to continue around 

the corner to the secondary street frontage for a 
minimum 30% of the lot length. 

•  Metal  fencing  not  permitted  forward  of  the  front 

building line. 

Subdivision 

•  Dual occupancy lots: Dual occupancy lots are to be subdivided into two attached 

dwelling lots. 

•  Attached dwellings:  No  subdivision  permitted.    Attached  dwellings  to  be attached  in 
groups  as  shown  in  the  attached  and  community  housing  lot  location  plan  (Figure 
16): 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Residential flat buildings 

Brunker Road Apartment Site Setbacks (Figure 17) 

•  Minimum 3 metre native landscape setback along the 
rear of the lot adjacent to the bush regeneration zone. 

North East Apartment Site Setbacks (Figure 18) 

•  Minimum 3 metre native landscape setback along the 
northern boundary of the lot adjacent to the bush 
regeneration zone. 

•  A tree preservation setback to the new shared road 
(No. 5) to the west to protect and maintain the street 
frontage trees. 

Tree Preservation (Figure 19) 

•  Street frontage trees are to be retained, except where 

required for driveway access. 

•  Significant tree identified in Figure 19 is to be retained 

if possible. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Community housing 

Purpose 

The  following  section  applies  to  community  housing  projects  which  mean  they  are 
developed  by  a  registered  community  housing  provider  as  defined  under  the 
Housing Act 2001.  The land where community housing can be developed is shown 
on the Land Application Map. 

Background 

The  Affordable  Rental  Housing  SEPP  provisions  for  ‘infill  development’  have  been 
used as the basis for these controls including: 

• 

• 

• 

Affordable housing  management: The  affordable  rental housing  component  is 
to be secured via restriction on title for a minimum of 10 years and managed by 
a registered Community Housing Provider (CHP). 
Character  of  the  local  area:  A  requirement  that  proposals  are  designed  to  be 
compatible with the character of the local area. 
Proportion of affordable housing: 100% of gross floor area of the development. 

The  controls  have  been  developed  to  provide  built  form  and  other  design  controls 
which the SEPP development standards do not provide. 

Storey limit 

•  Maximum two storey limit. 

Minimum dwelling sizes 

•  35m2 for a bedsitter or studio 
•  50m2 for a 1 bedroom dwelling 
•  70m2 for a 2 bedroom dwelling 
•  95m2 for a 3 or more bedroom dwelling 

Minimum parking requirements for CHPs 

•  0.4 car spaces per 1 bedroom dwelling 
•  0.5 car spaces per 2 bedroom dwelling 
•  1 car space per 3 or more bedroom dwelling 

Landscaped area 

•  Minimum 35m2 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Solar access 

•  Living areas and open spaces of 70% of the dwellings require a minimum of 3 hours 

direct sunlight between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter solstice. 

•  Corner allotments open space may be provided within the secondary street setback. 

Minimum setbacks 

•  Front: 3 metres 
•  Side: 0 metre 
•  Secondary street frontage: 2 metres 
•  Rear Boundary: 2 metres 
•  Rear Lane: 1 metre 

Deep soil zones 

•  Minimum of 15% of the site area 

Fences 

•  A front fence is to be provided on all Community Housing lots. 

•  Fences in the front setback area from a primary road are to be maximum 1.2 metres 
high and a minimum 50% open construction, other fences to be maximum 1.8 metres 
high.  The maximum height permitted for the fence is to be calculated from the 
finished ground level. 

•  Front side fences on detached sides to extend 2 metres back from the front facade, 

and should match the front fence height and design. 

•  On corner lots, the front fencing is to continue around the corner to the secondary 

street frontage for a minimum 30% of the lot length. 

•  Metal fencing not permitted forward of the front building line. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Earthworks and drainage 

•  Fill: 

Fill associated with the dwelling or garage must be contained within the external walls 
of the building or by a retaining wall with a height no greater than 600mm above 
existing ground level. 

•  Retaining walls: 

•  Retaining walls to be no greater than 1.2 metres high. 
•  Retaining walls not associated with the cut and fill from a dwelling or garage must 
have a height above or below existing ground level not exceeding 0.6 metre if 
located less than 0.5 metre from a side or rear boundary, or 1.2 metres if located 
at least 0.5 metre from a boundary. 

Drainage: 
•  For drainage requirements refer to the Bankstown Development Engineering 

Standards Policy, with the exception of Section 10 of these Development Standards.  
The Potts Hill Residential Precinct is designed to accommodate precinct wide on–site 
stormwater detention, located at various locations across the precinct.  Accordingly, 
individual lot on–site detention is not required. 

Secondary dwellings 

•  Secondary dwellings are permissible on community housing lots. 
•  Rear lane setback: minimum 1 metre. 
•  Side setbacks: may be built to common side boundary. 

Note. See clause 22(3) of the SEPP (Affordable Housing) 2004 for controls relating to 
the total floor area of secondary dwellings. 

Subdivision 

Subdivision is permissible with consent, generally in accordance with the attached draft 
plan of subdivision detail. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part A3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown 
Development 
Control 
Plan 2015 

PART B1 

RESIDENTIAL 
DEVELOPMENT 

 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

CONTENTS 

Section 1 

Introduction   

Section 2 

Dwelling Houses 

Section 3 

Secondary Dwellings 

Section 4 

Dual Occupancies 

Section 5 

Semi–Detached Dwellings  

Section 6 

Attached Dwellings   

Section 7  Multi Dwelling Housing in Zone R2 

Section 8  Multi Dwelling Housing in Zones R3 and R4 

Section 9 

Residential Flat Buildings, Serviced Apartments and 
Shop Top Housing  

Section 10  Boarding Houses 

Section 11  Group Homes 

Section 12  Housing Estates 

Section 13  Ancillary Development (Outbuildings) 

Section 14  Ancillary Development (Outdoor Structures) 

Section 15  Home Businesses 

Section 16  Neighbourhood Shops and Live–Work Enterprises in   

Zones R3 and R4 

Section 17  Health Consulting Rooms   

3 

5 

11 

16 

23 

29 

34 

41 

45 

53 

61 

68 

70 

72 

75 

77 

81 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 1–INTRODUCTION 

Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015 is Council's principal planning document 
to  regulate  effective  and  orderly  development  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.    The  LEP 
provides  objectives,  zones  and  development  standards  such  as  lot  sizes  and  floor 
space ratios. 

Part  B1  of  Bankstown  Development  Control  Plan  2015  supplements  the  LEP  by 
providing  additional  objectives  and  development  controls  to  enhance  the  liveability 
and  appearance  of  residential  development  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.    The 
development  controls  include  storey  limits,  setbacks,  building  design,  private  open 
space and landscaping. 

Part B1 generally applies to land within the rural and residential zones in the City of 
Bankstown under the provisions of Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015. 

Applicants must note: 

(a)  Certain  development  may  need  to  comply  with  Parts  A1  to  A3  of  this  DCP.  
These parts provide more detailed development controls for centres, corridors 
and key development sites in the residential zones.  The development controls 
include  storey  limits,  setbacks,  landscape  buffer  zones  and  access.    If 
applicable to a development application, the development controls of Parts A1 
to A3 will prevail if there is an inconsistency with any development controls in 
Part B1. 

(b)  Council  applies  the  design  quality  principles  of  State  Environmental  Planning 
Policy  No  65–Design  Quality  of  Residential  Apartment  Development  and  the 
Apartment  Design  Guide  to  residential  flat  buildings,  shop  top  housing, 
serviced apartments, boarding houses and mixed use development (containing 
dwellings).  This includes buildings that are two storeys or less, or contain less 
than four dwellings. 

(c)  A building envelope is not a building, but a three dimensional shape that may 
determine  the  bulk  and  siting  of  a  building.    After  allowing  for  building 
articulation,  the  achievable  floor  space  of  a  development  is  likely  to  be  less 
than the building envelope. 

Desired character 

The prevailing suburban character of the residential zones includes the subdivision 
pattern, front and side building setbacks, off–street parking behind the front building 
line and the landscaping of front yards with canopy trees and deep soil plantings. 

The desired characters for the residential zones are: 

(a)  To  have  a  low  density  residential  environment  in  Zone  R2  where  the  typical 
features  are  dwelling  houses,  dual  occupancies  and  multi  dwelling  housing 
within a generous landscaped setting. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

The site cover and building form of development must be compatible with the 
prevailing suburban character and amenity of this zone. 

This zone is also the most restrictive in terms of other permitted uses that are 
considered  suitable.    These  are  generally  restricted  to  facilities  and  services 
that meet the day–to–day needs of residents. 

(b)  To  have  a  medium  density  residential  environment  in  Zone  R3  that  generally 
acts as a transition between the high and low density residential environments.  
This  transition  area  will  enable  a  variety  of  medium  density  accommodation 
within a generous landscaped setting. 

(c)  To have a high density residential environment in Zone R4 that provides high 
density  housing  (in  the  form  of  contemporary  designed  residential  flat 
  Development  should  provide 
buildings)  within  a 
appropriate  spaces  between  buildings,  communal  open  spaces  and  deep  soil 
zones to provide adequate amenity for residents. 

landscaped  setting. 

(d)  To have development that is compatible with the prevailing suburban character 

and amenity of the residential environments. 

(e)  To  have  development  that  achieves  good  urban  design  in  terms  of  building 

form, bulk, architectural treatment and visual amenity. 

(f)  To  have  development  that  provides  adequate  amenity  to  people  who  live  in, 

work in and visit the local area. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 2–DWELLING HOUSES 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  ensure  lot  sizes  provide  adequate  space  for  dwellings,  setbacks  to 
adjoining  residential  land,  landscaped  areas,  open  space,  driveways,  vehicle 
manoeuvring areas and the like. 

(b)  To  ensure  the  building  form,  building  design  and  landscaping  of  dwelling 
houses are compatible with the prevailing suburban character of the residential 
areas. 

(c)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  dwelling  houses  provide 
appropriate  amenity  to  residents  in  terms  of  private  open  space,  access  to 
sunlight and privacy. 

(d)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  dwelling  houses  do  not 
adversely impact on the amenity of neighbouring properties in terms of visual 
bulk, access to sunlight and privacy. 

(e)  To ensure the building form of dwelling houses in the foreshore protection area 
preserves  the  existing  topography,  land  and  rock  formations,  and  the  unique 
ecology of natural bushland and mangrove areas. 

(f)  To minimise the visual impact of off–street parking on the streetscape. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Subdivision 

2.1  The subdivision of land must not create more than 4 battle–axe lots. 

2.2  Where the subdivision of land is creating: 

(a)  a  single  battle–axe  lot,  the  minimum  width  of  an  access  handle  is  3.5 

metres; or 

(b)  2 or more battle–axe lots, the minimum width of an access handle is 3.5 

metres plus a passing bay at 30 metre intervals. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Storey limit (not including basements) 

2.3  The storey limit for dwelling houses is 2 storeys. 

In  addition,  dwelling  houses  in  the  foreshore  protection  area  (refer  to  map  in 
Appendix  1)  must  ensure  the  wall  height  does  not  exceed  7  metres  and  the 
building height does not exceed 9 metres. 

2.4  The siting of dwelling houses and landscaping works must be compatible with 
the  existing  slope  and  contours  of  the  allotment  and  any  adjoining  property.  
Council  does  not  allow  any  development  that  involves  elevated  platforms  on 
columns;  or  excessive  or  unnecessary  terracing,  rock  excavation,  retaining 
walls or reclamation. 

2.5  Any  reconstituted  ground  level  on  the  allotment  must  not  exceed  a  height  of 
600mm  above  the  ground  level  (existing)  of  an  adjoining  property  except 
where: 

(a) 

the  dwelling  house  is  required  to  be  raised  to  achieve  a  suitable 
freeboard in accordance with Part B12 of this DCP; or 

(b) 

the fill is contained within the ground floor perimeter of the dwelling house 
to  a  height  no  greater  than  1  metre  above  the  ground  level  (existing)  of 
the allotment. 

Setback restrictions 

2.6  The  erection  of  dwelling  houses  is  prohibited  within  9  metres  of  an  existing 

animal boarding or training establishment. 

Setbacks to the primary and secondary road frontages 

2.7  The minimum setback for a building wall to the primary road frontage is: 

(a)  5.5 metres for the first storey (i.e. the ground floor); and 

(b)  6.5 metres for the second storey. 

2.8  The minimum setback to the secondary road frontage is: 

(a)  3 metres for a building wall; and 

(b)  5.5 metres for a garage or carport that is attached to the building wall. 

Setbacks to the side boundary 

2.9  For the portion of the building wall that has a wall height less than or equal to 7 
metres,  the  minimum  setback  to  the  side  boundary  of  the  allotment  is  0.9 
metre. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2.10  For  the  portion  of  the  building  wall  that  has  a  wall  height  greater  than  7 
metres,  the  minimum  setback  to  the  side  boundary  of  the  allotment  is  1.5 
metres.  Council may vary this requirement where a second storey addition to 
an existing dwelling house demonstrates it must use the ground floor walls for 
structural support. 

2.11  The basement level must not project beyond the ground floor perimeter of the 

dwelling house. 

Private open space 

2.12  Dwelling houses must provide a minimum 80m2 of private open space behind 
the front building line.  This may be in the form of a single area or a sum of 
areas provided the minimum width of each area is 5 metres throughout. 

Access to sunlight 

2.13  At least one living area must receive a minimum 3 hours of sunlight between 
8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter solstice.  Council may allow light wells 
and  skylights  to  supplement  this  access  to  sunlight  provided  these  building 
elements are not the primary source of sunlight to the living areas. 

2.14  At least one living area of a dwelling on an adjoining allotment must receive a 
minimum 3 hours of sunlight between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter 
solstice.   Where  this  requirement  cannot  be  met,  the  development  must  not 
result  with  additional  overshadowing  on  the  affected  living  areas  of  the 
dwelling. 

2.15  A  minimum  50%  of  the  private  open  space  required  for  the  dwelling  house 
and a minimum 50% of the private open space of a dwelling on an adjoining 
allotment  must  receive  at  least  3  hours  of  sunlight  between  9.00am  and 
5.00pm at the equinox.  Where this requirement cannot be met for a dwelling 
on  an  adjoining  allotment,  the  development  must  not  result  with  additional 
overshadowing on the affected private open space. 

2.16  Development  should  avoid  overshadowing  any  existing  solar  hot  water 
system,  photovoltaic  panel  or  other  solar  collector  on  the  allotment  and 
neighbouring properties. 

Visual privacy 

2.17  Where development proposes a window that directly looks into the living area 

or bedroom window of an existing dwelling, the development must: 

(a)  offset the windows between dwellings to minimise overlooking; or 

(b)  provide the window with a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor 

level; or 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(c)  ensure the window cannot open and has obscure glazing to a minimum 

height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(d)  use another form of screening to the satisfaction of Council. 

2.18  Where  development  proposes  a  window  that  directly  looks  into  the  private 
open  space  of  an  existing  dwelling,  the  window  does  not  require  screening 
where: 

(a) 

the window is to a bedroom, bathroom, toilet, laundry, storage room, or 
other non–habitable room; or 

(b) 

the window has a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(c) 

the  window  has  translucent  glazing  to  a  minimum  height  of  1.5  metres 
above floor level; or 

(d) 

the window is designed to prevent overlooking of more than 50% of the 
private open space of a lower–level or adjoining dwelling. 

2.19  Council  may  allow  dwelling  houses  to  have  an  upper  floor  side  or  rear 
balcony  solely  where  the  balcony  is  not  accessible  from  a  living  area  or 
hallway, and the balcony design: 

(a)  does not have an external staircase; and 

(b)  does not exceed a width of 1.5 metres throughout; and 

(c) 

incorporates  a  form  of  screening  to  the  satisfaction  of  Council  such  as 
partially recessing the balcony into the building. 

2.20  Council  does  not  allow  dwelling  houses  to  have  roof–top  balconies  and  the 

like. 

Building design 

2.21  The maximum roof pitch for dwelling houses is 35 degrees. 

2.22  Council may allow dwelling houses to have an attic provided the attic design: 

(a)  accommodates  no  more  than  two  small  rooms  (for  the  purposes  of  a 
bedroom and/or study) and a bathroom plus an internal link to the storey 
below; and 

(b)  ensures the attic does not give the external appearance of a storey. 

2.23  The design of dormers must: 

(a)  be compatible with the form and pitch of the roof; and 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b)  must not project above the ridgeline of the main roof; and 

(c)  must not exceed a width of 2 metres; and 

(d) 

the number of dormers must not dominate the roof plane. 

2.24  Development  in  the  foreshore  protection  area  (refer  to  map  in  Appendix  1) 
must  use  non–reflective  materials  that  are  compatible  with  the  natural 
characteristics  and  colours  of  the  area  (such  as  olive  green,  grey  and  dark 
brown). 

Building design (car parking) 

2.25  Development on land bounded by Birdwood Road, Bellevue Avenue and Rex 

Road in Georges Hall must: 

(a)  comply with the road pattern shown in Appendix 2; and 

(b)  ensure vehicle access from Balmoral Crescent to land at Nos. 107–113 
Rex Road in Georges Hall is provided for no more than 10 dwellings as 
shown in Appendix 3. 

2.26  Development must locate the car parking spaces behind the front building line 
with at least one covered car parking space for weather protection.  Despite 
this clause, Council may allow one car parking space to locate forward of the 
front building line provided: 

(a) 

the car parking space forward of the front building line is uncovered and 
located in a stacked arrangement on the driveway in front of the covered 
car parking space; and 

(b) 

the covered car parking space is setback a minimum 6 metres from the 
primary and secondary frontages. 

2.27  Despite clause 2.26, Council may allow an existing dwelling house (approved 
prior to 21 October 1997) to erect a carport forward of the front building line 
solely where: 

(a) 

two car parking spaces behind the front building line is not possible due 
to the side boundary setbacks being less than 3 metres; and 

(b) 

the  carport  achieves  a  high  quality  design  with  a  pitched  roof  that 
complements the dwelling house; and 

(c) 

the  carport  is  setback  a  minimum  1  metre  from  the  primary  and 
secondary frontages. 

2.28  Where  development  proposes  a  garage  with  up  to  two  car  parking  spaces 
facing  the  street,  Council  must  ensure  the  garage  architecturally  integrates 
with the development and does not dominate the street facade. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2.29  Where  development  proposes  a  garage  with  more  than  two  car  parking 
spaces facing the street, Council must consider the architectural merit of the 
development and may allow the garage provided: 

(a) 

the building is at least 2 storeys in height, and 

(b) 

the garage is architecturally integrated with the upper storey by: 

(i) 

ensuring the garage does not project more than 3 metres forward 
of the upper storey street facade; and 

(ii)  designing a covered balcony, rooms or other architectural features 

of the upper storey to extend over the garage roof. 

This  clause  prevails  where  there  is  a  numerical  inconsistency  with  another 
clause in Part B1 of this DCP. 

Landscaping 

2.30  Development  must  retain  and  protect  any  significant  trees  on  the  allotment 
and  adjoining  allotments.    To  achieve  this  clause,  the  development  may 
require a design alteration or a reduction in the size of the dwelling house. 

2.31  Development must landscape the following areas on the allotment by way of 
trees  and  shrubs  with  preference  given  to  native  vegetation  endemic  to  the 
City  of  Bankstown  (refer  to  Appendix  4  and  Appendix  5 for  a  list  of  suitable 
species): 

(a)  a minimum 45% of the area between the dwelling house and the primary 

road frontage; and 

(b)  a  minimum  45%  of  the  area  between  the  dwelling  house  and  the 

secondary road frontage; and 

(c)  plant  at  least  one  75  litre  tree  between  the  dwelling  house  and  the 
primary  road frontage (refer to Appendix  5 for  a  list of  suitable  trees  in 
the City of Bankstown or Appendix 6 for allotments that adjoin the Hume 
Highway); and 

(d) 

for  development  in  the  foreshore  protection  area  (refer  to  map  in 
Appendix  1),  plant  native  trees  with  a  mature  height  greater  than  12 
metres adjacent to the waterbody. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 3–SECONDARY DWELLINGS 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)   To ensure secondary dwellings are established in conjunction with the principal 

dwelling on the same allotment. 

(b)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  secondary  dwellings  are 
compatible with the prevailing suburban character of the residential areas. 

(c)  To ensure the building form and building design of secondary dwellings provide 
appropriate  amenity  to  residents  in  terms  of  private  open  space,  access  to 
sunlight and privacy. 

(d)  To ensure the building form and building design of secondary dwellings do not 
adversely impact on the amenity of neighbouring properties in terms of visual 
bulk, access to sunlight and privacy. 

(e)  To ensure the building form of secondary dwellings in the foreshore protection 
area  preserves  the  existing  topography,  land  and  rock  formations,  and  the 
unique ecology of natural bushland and mangrove areas. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Subdivision 

3.1  The subdivision of secondary dwellings is prohibited. 

Site cover 

3.2  Council  must  not  consent  to  development  for  the  purpose  of  secondary 

dwellings unless: 

(a) 

(b) 

the total floor area of the principal dwelling and the secondary dwelling is 
no more than the maximum floor area allowed for a dwelling house on the 
land under an environmental planning instrument; and 

the total floor area of the secondary dwelling is no more than 60m2 or, if a 
greater floor area is permitted in respect of a secondary dwelling  on the 
land under an environmental planning instrument, that greater floor area. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Storey limit (not including basements) 

3.3  The storey limit for attached secondary dwellings is 2 storeys. 

In  addition,  attached  secondary  dwellings  in  the  foreshore  protection  area 
(refer  to  map  in  Appendix  1)  must  ensure  the  wall  height  does  not  exceed  7 
metres and the building height does not exceed 9 metres. 

3.4  The  storey  limit  for  detached  secondary  dwellings  is  single  storey  and  the 

maximum wall height is 3 metres. 

3.5  The siting of secondary dwellings and landscaping works must be compatible 
with  the  existing  slope  and  contours  of  the  allotment  and  any  adjoining 
property.    Council  does  not  allow  any  development  that  involves  elevated 
platforms on columns; or excessive or unnecessary terracing, rock excavation, 
retaining walls or reclamation. 

3.6  Any  reconstituted  ground  level  on  the  allotment  must  not  exceed  a  height  of 
600mm  above  the  ground  level  (existing)  of  an  adjoining  property  except 
where: 

(a) 

the  secondary  dwelling  is  required  to  be  raised  to  achieve  a  suitable 
freeboard in accordance with Part B12 of this DCP; or 

(b) 

the  fill  is  contained  within  the  ground  floor  perimeter  of  the  secondary 
dwelling  to  a  height  no  greater  than  1  metre  above  the  ground  level 
(existing) of the allotment. 

Setback restrictions 

3.7  The erection of secondary dwellings is prohibited within 9 metres of an existing 

animal boarding or training establishment. 

Setbacks to the primary and secondary road frontages 

3.8  The minimum setback for a building wall to the primary road frontage is: 

(a)  5.5 metres for the first storey (i.e. the ground floor); and 

(b)  6.5 metres for the second storey. 

3.9  The minimum setback to the secondary road frontage is: 

(a)  3 metres for a building wall; and 

(b)  5.5 metres for a garage or carport that is attached to the building wall. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Setbacks to the side and rear boundaries 

3.10  For the portion of the building wall that has a wall height less than or equal to 
7  metres,  the  minimum  setback  to  the  side  and  rear  boundaries  of  the 
allotment is 0.9 metre. 

3.11  For  the  portion  of  the  building  wall  that  has  a  wall  height  greater  than  7 
metres, the minimum setback to the side and rear boundaries of the allotment 
is 1.5 metres. 

Private open space 

3.12  Secondary dwellings must not result in the principal dwelling on the allotment 
having less than the required landscaped area and private open space. 

Access to sunlight 

3.13  At least one living area must receive a minimum 3 hours of sunlight between 
8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter solstice.  Council may allow light wells 
and  skylights  to  supplement  this  access  to  sunlight  provided  these  building 
elements are not the primary source of sunlight to the living areas. 

3.14  At least one living area of a dwelling on an adjoining allotment must receive a 
minimum 3 hours of sunlight between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter 
solstice.   Where  this  requirement  cannot  be  met,  the  development  must  not 
result  with  additional  overshadowing  on  the  affected  living  areas  of  the 
dwelling. 

3.15  A minimum 50% of the private open space required for the principal dwelling 
on the allotment and a minimum 50% of the private open space of a dwelling 
on  an  adjoining  allotment  must  receive  at  least  3  hours  of  sunlight  between 
9.00am and 5.00pm at the equinox.  Where this requirement cannot be met 
for a dwelling on an adjoining allotment, the development must not result with 
additional overshadowing on the affected private open space. 

Visual privacy 

3.16  Where development proposes a window that directly looks into the living area 

or bedroom window of an existing dwelling, the development must: 

(a)  offset the windows between dwellings to minimise overlooking; or 

(b)  provide the window with a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor 

level; or 

(c)  ensure the window cannot open and has obscure glazing to a minimum 

height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(d)  use another form of screening to the satisfaction of Council. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

3.17  Where  development  proposes  a  window  that  directly  looks  into  the  private 
open  space  of  an  existing  dwelling,  the  window  does  not  require  screening 
where: 

(a) 

the window is to a bedroom, bathroom, toilet, laundry, storage room, or 
other non–habitable room; or 

(b) 

the window has a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(c) 

the  window  has  translucent glazing  to  a  minimum  height  of  1.5  metres 
above floor level; or 

(d) 

the window is designed to prevent overlooking of more than 50% of the 
private open space of a lower–level or adjoining dwelling. 

3.18  Council may allow attached secondary dwellings to have an upper floor side 
or rear balcony solely where the balcony is not accessible from a living area 
or hallway, and the balcony design: 

(a)  does not have an external staircase; and 

(b)  does not exceed a width of 1.5 metres throughout; and 

(c) 

incorporates  a  form  of  screening  to  the  satisfaction  of  Council  such  as 
partially recessing the balcony into the building. 

3.19  Council  does  not  allow  secondary  dwellings  to  have  roof–top  balconies  and 

the like. 

Building design 

3.20  The maximum roof pitch for attached secondary dwellings is 35 degrees. 

3.21  Council may allow attached secondary dwellings to have an attic provided the 

attic design: 

(a)  accommodates  no  more  than  two  small  rooms  (for  the  purposes  of  a 
bedroom and/or study) and a bathroom plus an internal link to the storey 
below; and 

(b)  ensures the attic does not give the external appearance of a storey. 

3.22  The design of dormers must: 

(a)  be compatible with the form and pitch of the roof; and 

(b)  must not project above the ridgeline of the main roof; and 

(c)  must not exceed a width of 2 metres; and 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(d) 

the number of dormers must not dominate the roof plane. 

3.23  The maximum roof pitch for detached secondary dwellings is 25 degrees.  An 

attic or basement is not permitted as part of the dwelling. 

3.24  Development  in  the  foreshore  protection  area  (refer  to  map  in  Appendix  1) 
must  use  non–reflective  materials  that  are  compatible  with  the  natural 
characteristics  and  colours  of  the  area  (such  as  olive  green,  grey  and  dark 
brown). 

3.25  The  change of  use of outbuildings  to  secondary  dwellings  must  comply  with 

the Building Code of Australia. 

Building design (car parking) 

3.26  Secondary dwellings must not result in the principal dwelling on the allotment 

having less than the required car parking spaces. 

Landscaping 

3.27  Development  must  retain  and  protect  any  significant  trees  on  the  allotment 
and  adjoining  allotments.    To  achieve  this  clause,  the  development  may 
require  a  design  alteration  or  a  reduction  in  the  size  of  the  secondary 
dwelling. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 4–DUAL OCCUPANCIES 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  ensure  lot  sizes  provide  adequate  space  for  dwellings,  setbacks  to 
adjoining  residential  land,  landscaped  areas,  open  space,  driveways,  vehicle 
manoeuvring areas and the like. 

(b)  To  ensure  the  building  form,  building  design  and  landscaping  of  dual 
occupancies  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing  suburban  character  of  the 
residential areas, particularly the single dwelling suburban character of the low 
density residential areas. 

(c)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  dual  occupancies  provide 
appropriate  amenity  to  residents  in  terms  of  private  open  space,  access  to 
sunlight and privacy. 

(d)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  dual  occupancies  do  not 
adversely impact on the amenity of neighbouring properties in terms of visual 
bulk, access to sunlight and privacy. 

(e)  To  ensure  the  building  form  of  dual  occupancies  in  the  foreshore  protection 
area  preserves  the  existing  topography,  land  and  rock  formations,  and  the 
unique ecology of natural bushland and mangrove areas. 

(f)  To minimise the visual impact of off–street parking on the streetscape. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Subdivision 

4.1  The two dwellings forming a dual occupancy (attached) may be subdivided to a 

minimum lot size of 250m2 per dwelling. 

4.2  The two dwellings forming a dual occupancy (detached) may be subdivided to 

a minimum lot size of 350m2 per dwelling. 

4.3  For development that establishes a dual occupancy and a secondary dwelling 
on the same allotment, the two dwellings forming the dual occupancy may be 
subdivided provided the minimum lot size is 450m2 per dwelling. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Storey limit (not including basements) 

4.4  The storey limit for dual occupancies is 2 storeys. 

In addition, dual occupancies in the foreshore protection area (refer to map in 
Appendix  1)  must  ensure  the  wall  height  does  not  exceed  7  metres  and  the 
building height does not exceed 9 metres. 

4.5  The  siting  of  dual  occupancies,  and  landscaping  works  must  be  compatible 
with  the  existing  slope  and  contours  of  the  allotment  and  any  adjoining 
property.    Council  does  not  allow  any  development  that  involves  elevated 
platforms on columns; or excessive or unnecessary terracing, rock excavation, 
retaining walls or reclamation. 

4.6  Any  reconstituted  ground  level  on  the  allotment  must  not  exceed  a  height  of 
600mm  above  the  ground  level  (existing)  of  an  adjoining  property  except 
where: 

(a) 

the  dual  occupancy  is  required  to  be  raised  to  achieve  a  suitable 
freeboard in accordance with Part B12 of this DCP; or 

(b) 

the  fill  is  contained  within  the  ground  floor  perimeter  of  the  dual 
occupancy  to  a  height  no  greater  than  1  metre  above  the  ground  level 
(existing) of the allotment. 

Setback restrictions 

4.7  The  erection  of  dual  occupancies  is  prohibited  within  9  metres  of  an  existing 

animal boarding or training establishment. 

Setbacks to the primary and secondary road frontages 

4.8  The minimum setback for a building wall to the primary road frontage is: 

(a)  5.5 metres for the first storey (i.e. the ground floor); and 

(b)  6.5 metres for the second storey. 

4.9  The minimum setback to the secondary road frontage is: 

(a)  3 metres for a building wall; and 

(b)  5.5 metres for a garage or carport that is attached to the building wall. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Setbacks to the side boundary 

4.10  For the portion of the building wall that has a wall height less than or equal to 
7  metres,  the  minimum  setback  to  the  side  boundary  of  the  allotment  is  0.9 
metre.  Council may increase the minimum setback to reduce any impact on 
the amenity of an adjoining dwelling or to avoid the drip line of a tree on an 
adjoining property. 

4.11  For  the  portion  of  the  building  wall  that  has  a  wall  height  greater  than  7 
metres,  the  minimum  setback  to  the  side  boundary  of  the  allotment  is  1.5 
metres. 

4.12  The  minimum  setback  between  a  dual  occupancy  and  the  side  boundary 
must  be  clear  of  obstacles  such  as  a  hot  water  unit,  waste  storage  area, 
storage shed and the like. 

4.13  The basement level must not project beyond the ground floor perimeter of the 

dual occupancy. 

Private open space 

4.14  Dual  occupancies  must  provide  a  minimum  80m2  of  private  open  space  per 
dwelling  behind  the  front  building  line.    This  may  be  in  the  form  of  a  single 
area or a sum of areas per dwelling provided the minimum width of each area 
is 5 metres throughout. 

Access to sunlight 

4.15  At least one living area of each dwelling must receive a minimum 3 hours of 
sunlight  between  8.00am  and  4.00pm  at  the  mid–winter  solstice.    Council 
may  allow  light  wells  and  skylights  to  supplement  this  access  to  sunlight 
provided these building elements are not the primary source of sunlight to the 
living areas. 

4.16  At least one living area of a dwelling on an adjoining allotment must receive a 
minimum 3 hours of sunlight between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter 
solstice.   Where  this  requirement  cannot  be  met,  the  development  must  not 
result  with  additional  overshadowing  on  the  affected  living  areas  of  the 
dwelling. 

4.17  A minimum 50% of the private open space required for each dwelling and a 
minimum  50%  of  the  private  open  space  of  a  dwelling  on  an  adjoining 
allotment  must  receive  at  least  3  hours  of  sunlight  between  9.00am  and 
5.00pm at the equinox.  Where this requirement cannot be met for a dwelling 
on  an  adjoining  allotment,  the  development  must  not  result  with  additional 
overshadowing on the affected private open space. 

4.18  Development  should  avoid  overshadowing  any  existing  solar  hot  water 
system,  photovoltaic  panel  or  other  solar  collector  on  the  allotment  and 
neighbouring properties. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Visual privacy 

4.19  Where development proposes a window that directly looks into the living area 

or bedroom window of an existing dwelling, the development must: 

(a)  offset the windows between dwellings to minimise overlooking; or 

(b)  provide the window with a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor 

level; or 

(c)  ensure the window cannot open and has obscure glazing to a minimum 

height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(d)  use another form of screening to the satisfaction of Council. 

4.20  Where  development  proposes  a  window  that  directly  looks  into  the  private 
open  space  of  an  existing  dwelling,  the  window  does  not  require  screening 
where: 

(a) 

the window is to a bedroom, bathroom, toilet, laundry, storage room, or 
other non–habitable room; or 

(b) 

the window has a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(c) 

the  window  has  translucent  glazing  to  a  minimum  height  of  1.5  metres 
above floor level; or 

(d) 

the window is designed to prevent overlooking of more than 50% of the 
private open space of a lower–level or adjoining dwelling. 

4.21  Council  may  allow  dual  occupancies  to  have  an  upper  floor  side  or  rear 
balcony  solely  where  the  balcony  is  not  accessible  from  a  living  area  or 
hallway, and the balcony design: 

(a)  does not have an external staircase; and 

(b)  does not exceed a width of 1.5 metres throughout; and 

(c) 

incorporates  a  form  of  screening  to  the  satisfaction  of  Council  such  as 
partially recessing the balcony into the building. 

4.22  Council does not allow dual occupancies to have roof–top balconies and the 

like. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Building design 

4.23  Development for the purpose of dual occupancies must demolish all existing 

dwellings (not including any heritage items) on the allotment. 

4.24  The design of dual occupancies must ensure: 

(a) 

(b) 

the street facade of dual occupancies (attached) adopt an asymmetrical 
design to provide each dwelling with an individual identity when viewed 
from the street; or 

the  street  facade  of  dual  occupancies  (attached)  or  dual  occupancies 
(detached)  incorporate  architectural  elements  that  are  compatible  with 
the  asymmetrical  appearance  of  neighbouring  dwelling  houses, 
particularly  where  a  pattern  is  established  by  a  group  of  adjoining 
dwelling houses; and 

(c) 

the front porch and one or more living area or bedroom windows to each 
dwelling face the street; and 

(d) 

the  garage,  driveway  and  front  fence  do  not  dominate  the  front  of  the 
building and front yard; and 

(e) 

the two dwellings on a corner allotment each face a different frontage. 

4.25  The maximum roof pitch for dual occupancies is 35 degrees. 

4.26  Council  may  allow  dual  occupancies  to  have  an  attic  provided  the  attic 

design: 

(a)  accommodates  no  more  than  two  small  rooms  (for  the  purposes  of  a 
bedroom and/or study) and a bathroom plus an internal link to the storey 
below; and 

(b)  ensures the attic does not give the external appearance of a storey. 

4.27  The design of dormers must: 

(a)  be compatible with the form and pitch of the roof; and 

(b)  must not project above the ridgeline of the main roof; and 

(c)  must not exceed a width of 2 metres; and 

(d) 

the number of dormers must not dominate the roof plane. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

4.28  Development  in  the  foreshore  protection  area  (refer  to  map  in  Appendix  1) 
must  use  non–reflective  materials  that  are  compatible  with  the  natural 
characteristics  and  colours  of  the  area  (such  as  olive  green,  grey  and  dark 
brown). 

Building design (car parking) 

4.29  Development on land bounded by Birdwood Road, Bellevue Avenue and Rex 

Road in Georges Hall must: 

(a)  comply with the road pattern shown in Appendix 2; and 

(b)  ensure vehicle access from Balmoral Crescent to land at Nos. 107–113 
Rex Road in Georges Hall is provided for no more than 10 dwellings as 
shown in Appendix 3. 

4.30  Development must locate the car parking spaces behind the front building line 
with at least one covered car parking space for weather protection.  Despite 
this  clause,  Council  may  allow  one  car  parking  space  per  dwelling  to  locate 
forward of the front building line provided: 

(a) 

the car parking space forward of the front building line is uncovered and 
located in a stacked arrangement on the driveway in front of the covered 
car parking space; and 

(b) 

the covered car parking space is setback a minimum 6 metres from the 
primary and secondary frontages. 

4.31  Where  development  proposes  a  garage  with  up  to  two  car  parking  spaces 
facing  the  street,  Council  must  ensure  the  garage  architecturally  integrates 
with the development and does not dominate the street facade. 

4.32  Where  development  proposes  a  garage  with  more  than  two  car  parking 
spaces facing the street, Council must consider the architectural merit of the 
development and may allow the garage provided: 

(a) 

the building is at least 2 storeys in height, and 

(b) 

the garage is architecturally integrated with the upper storey by: 

(i) 

ensuring the garage does not project more than 3 metres forward 
of the upper storey street facade; and 

(ii)  designing a covered balcony, rooms or other architectural features 

of the upper storey to extend over the garage roof. 

This  clause  prevails  where  there  is  a  numerical  inconsistency  with  another 
clause in Part B1 of this DCP. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Landscaping 

4.33  Development  must  retain  and  protect  any  significant  trees  on  the  allotment 
and  adjoining  allotments.    To  achieve  this  clause,  the  development  may 
require a design alteration or a reduction in the size of the dual occupancy. 

4.34  Development must landscape the following areas on the allotment by way of 
trees  and  shrubs  with  preference  given  to  native  vegetation  endemic  to  the 
City  of  Bankstown  (refer  to  Appendix  4  and  Appendix  5 for  a  list  of  suitable 
species): 

(a)  a  minimum  45%  of  the  area  between  the  dual  occupancy  and  the 

primary road frontage; and 

(b)  a  minimum  45%  of  the  area  between  the  dual  occupancy  and  the 

secondary road frontage; and 

(c)  plant  at  least  one  75  litre  tree  between  the  dual  occupancy  and  the 
primary  road frontage (refer to Appendix  5 for  a  list of  suitable  trees  in 
the City of Bankstown or Appendix 6 for allotments that adjoin the Hume 
Highway); and 

(d) 

for  development  in  the  foreshore  protection  area  (refer  to  map  in 
Appendix  1),  plant  native  trees  with  a  mature  height  greater  than  12 
metres adjacent to the waterbody. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 5–SEMI–DETACHED DWELLINGS 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  ensure  lot  sizes  provide  adequate  space  for  dwellings,  setbacks  to 
adjoining  residential  land,  landscaped  areas,  open  space,  driveways,  vehicle 
manoeuvring areas and the like. 

(b)  To  ensure  the  building  form,  building  design  and  landscaping  of  semi–
detached  dwellings  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing  suburban  character  of 
the residential areas, particularly the single dwelling suburban character of the 
low density residential areas. 

(c)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  semi–detached  dwellings 
provide  appropriate  amenity  to  residents  in  terms  of  private  open  space, 
access to sunlight and privacy. 

(d)  To ensure the building form and building design of semi–detached dwellings do 
not  adversely  impact  on  the  amenity  of  neighbouring  properties  in  terms  of 
visual bulk, access to sunlight and privacy. 

(e)  To  ensure  the  building  form  of  semi–detached  dwellings  in  the  foreshore 
protection  area  preserves  the  existing  topography,  land  and  rock  formations, 
and the unique ecology of natural bushland and mangrove areas. 

(f)  To minimise the visual impact of off–street parking on the streetscape. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Storey limit (not including basements) 

5.1  The storey limit for semi–detached dwellings is 2 storeys. 

In addition, semi–detached dwellings in the foreshore protection area (refer to 
map in Appendix 1) must ensure the wall height does not exceed 7 metres and 
the building height does not exceed 9 metres. 

5.2  The  siting  of  semi–detached  dwellings  and  landscaping  works  must  be 
compatible  with  the  existing  slope  and  contours  of  the  allotment  and  any 
adjoining  property.    Council  does  not  allow  any  development  that  involves 
elevated  platforms  on  columns;  or  excessive  or  unnecessary  terracing,  rock 
excavation, retaining walls or reclamation. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

5.3  Any  reconstituted  ground  level  on  the  allotment  must  not  exceed  a  height  of 
600mm  above  the  ground  level  (existing)  of  an  adjoining  property  except 
where: 

(a) 

the  semi–detached  dwellings  are  required  to  be  raised  to  achieve  a 
suitable freeboard in accordance with Part B12 of this DCP; or 

(b) 

the  fill  is  contained  within  the  ground  floor  perimeter  of  the  semi–
detached dwellings to a height no greater than 1 metre above the ground 
level (existing) of the allotment. 

Setback restrictions 

5.4  The  erection  of  semi–detached  dwellings  is  prohibited  within  9  metres  of  an 

existing animal boarding or training establishment. 

Setbacks to the primary and secondary road frontages 

5.5  The minimum setback for a building wall to the primary road frontage is: 

(a)  5.5 metres for the first storey (i.e. the ground floor); and 

(b)  6.5 metres for the second storey. 

5.6  The minimum setback to the secondary road frontage is: 

(a)  3 metres for a building wall; and 

(b)  5.5 metres for a garage or carport that is attached to the building wall. 

Setbacks to the side boundary 

5.7  For the portion of the building wall that has a wall height less than or equal to 7 
metres,  the  minimum  setback  to  the  side  boundary  of  the  allotment  is  0.9 
metre.    Council  may  increase  the  minimum  setback  to  reduce  any  impact  on 
the  amenity  of  an  adjoining  dwelling  or  to  avoid  the  drip  line  of  a  tree  on  an 
adjoining property. 

5.8  For the portion of the building wall that has a wall height greater than 7 metres, 
the minimum setback to the side boundary of the allotment is 1.5 metres. 

5.9  The  minimum  setback  between  semi–detached  dwellings  and  the  side 
boundary  must  be  clear  of  obstacles  such as  a  hot  water  unit,  waste  storage 
area, storage shed and the like. 

5.10  The basement level must not project beyond the ground floor perimeter of the 

semi–detached dwellings. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Private open space 

5.11  Semi–detached  dwellings  must  provide  a  minimum  80m2  of  private  open 
space per dwelling behind the front building line.  This may be in the form of a 
single  area  or  a  sum  of  areas  per  dwelling  provided  the  minimum  width  of 
each area is 5 metres throughout. 

Access to sunlight 

5.12  At least one living area of each dwelling must receive a minimum 3 hours of 
sunlight  between  8.00am  and  4.00pm  at  the  mid–winter  solstice.    Council 
may  allow  light  wells  and  skylights  to  supplement  this  access  to  sunlight 
provided these building elements are not the primary source of sunlight to the 
living areas. 

5.13  At least one living area of a dwelling on an adjoining allotment must receive a 
minimum 3 hours of sunlight between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter 
solstice.   Where  this  requirement  cannot  be  met,  the  development  must  not 
result  with  additional  overshadowing  on  the  affected  living  areas  of  the 
dwelling. 

5.14  A minimum 50% of the private open space required for each dwelling and a 
minimum  50%  of  the  private  open  space  of  a  dwelling  on  an  adjoining 
allotment  must  receive  at  least  3  hours  of  sunlight  between  9.00am  and 
5.00pm at the equinox.  Where this requirement cannot be met for a dwelling 
on  an  adjoining  allotment,  the  development  must  not  result  with  additional 
overshadowing on the affected private open space. 

5.15  Development  should  avoid  overshadowing  any  existing  solar  hot  water 
system,  photovoltaic  panel  or  other  solar  collector  on  the  allotment  and 
neighbouring properties. 

Visual privacy 

5.16  Where development proposes a window that directly looks into the living area 

or bedroom window of an existing dwelling, the development must: 

(a)  offset the windows between dwellings to minimise overlooking; or 

(b)  provide the window with a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor 

level; or 

(c)  ensure the window cannot open and has obscure glazing to a minimum 

height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(d)  use another form of screening to the satisfaction of Council. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

5.17  Where  development  proposes  a  window  that  directly  looks  into  the  private 
open  space  of  an  existing  dwelling,  the  window  does  not  require  screening 
where: 

(a) 

the window is to a bedroom, bathroom, toilet, laundry, storage room, or 
other non–habitable room; or 

(b) 

the window has a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(c) 

the  window  has  translucent  glazing  to  a  minimum  height  of  1.5  metres 
above floor level; or 

(d) 

the window is designed to prevent overlooking of more than 50% of the 
private open space of a lower–level or adjoining dwelling. 

5.18  Council  may  allow  semi–detached  dwellings  to  have  an  upper  floor  side  or 
rear balcony solely where the balcony is not accessible from a living area or 
hallway, and the balcony design: 

(a)  does not have an external staircase; and 

(b)  does not exceed a width of 1.5 metres throughout; and 

(c) 

incorporates  a  form  of  screening  to  the  satisfaction  of  Council  such  as 
partially recessing the balcony into the building. 

5.19  Council  does  not  allow  semi–detached  dwellings  to  have  roof–top  balconies 

and the like. 

Building design 

5.20  Development  for  the  purpose  of  semi–detached  dwellings  must  demolish  all 
existing dwellings (not including any heritage items) on the allotment. 

5.21  The design of semi–detached dwellings must ensure: 

(a) 

(b) 

the  street  facade  of  semi–detached  dwellings  adopt  an  asymmetrical 
design to provide each dwelling with an individual identity when viewed 
from the street; or 

the  street  facade  of  semi–detached  dwellings  incorporate  architectural 
elements  that  are  compatible  with  the  asymmetrical  appearance  of 
neighbouring  dwelling  houses,  particularly  where  a  pattern 
is 
established by a group of adjoining dwelling houses; and 

(c) 

the front porch and one or more living area or bedroom windows to each 
dwelling face the street; and 

(d) 

the  garage,  driveway  and  front  fence  do  not  dominate  the  front  of  the 
building and front yard; and 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

26 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(e) 

the two dwellings on a corner allotment each face a different frontage. 

5.22  The maximum roof pitch for semi–detached dwellings is 35 degrees. 

5.23  Council  may  allow  semi–detached  dwellings  to  have  an  attic  provided  the 

attic design: 

(a)  accommodates  no  more  than  two  small  rooms  (for  the  purposes  of  a 
bedroom and/or study) and a bathroom plus an internal link to the storey 
below; and 

(b)  ensures the attic does not give the external appearance of a storey. 

5.24  The design of dormers must: 

(a)  be compatible with the form and pitch of the roof; and 

(b)  must not project above the ridgeline of the main roof; and 

(c)  must not exceed a width of 2 metres; and 

(d) 

the number of dormers must not dominate the roof plane. 

5.25  Development  in  the  foreshore  protection  area  (refer  to  map  in  Appendix  1) 
must  use  non–reflective  materials  that  are  compatible  with  the  natural 
characteristics  and  colours  of  the  area  (such  as  olive  green,  grey  and  dark 
brown). 

Building design (car parking) 

5.26  Development on land bounded by Birdwood Road, Bellevue Avenue and Rex 

Road in Georges Hall must: 

(a)  comply with the road pattern shown in Appendix 2; and 

(b)  ensure vehicle access from Balmoral Crescent to land at Nos. 107–113 
Rex Road in Georges Hall is provided for no more than 10 dwellings as 
shown in Appendix 3. 

5.27  Development must locate the car parking spaces behind the front building line 
with at least one covered car parking space for weather protection.  Despite 
this  clause,  Council  may  allow  one  car  parking  space  per  dwelling  to  locate 
forward of the front building line provided: 

(a) 

the car parking space forward of the front building line is uncovered and 
located in a stacked arrangement on the driveway in front of the covered 
car parking space; and 

(b) 

the covered car parking space is setback a minimum 6 metres from the 
primary and secondary frontages. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

5.28  Where  development  proposes  a  garage  with  up  to  two  car  parking  spaces 
facing  the  street,  Council  must  ensure  the  garage  architecturally  integrates 
with the development and does not dominate the street facade. 

5.29  Where  development  proposes  a  garage  with  more  than  two  car  parking 
spaces facing the street, Council must consider the architectural merit of the 
development and may allow the garage provided: 

(a) 

the building is at least 2 storeys in height, and 

(b) 

the garage is architecturally integrated with the upper storey by: 

(i) 

ensuring the garage does not project more than 3 metres forward 
of the upper storey street facade; and 

(ii)  designing a covered balcony, rooms or other architectural features 

of the upper storey to extend over the garage roof. 

This  clause  prevails  where  there  is  a  numerical  inconsistency  with  another 
clause in Part B1 of this DCP. 

Landscaping 

5.30  Development  must  retain  and  protect  any  significant  trees  on  the  allotment 
and  adjoining  allotments.    To  achieve  this  clause,  the  development  may 
require  a  design  alteration  or  a  reduction  in  the  size  of  the  semi–detached 
dwellings. 

5.31  Development must landscape the following areas on the allotment by way of 
trees  and  shrubs  with  preference  given  to  native  vegetation  endemic  to  the 
City  of  Bankstown  (refer  to  Appendix  4  and  Appendix  5  for  a  list  of  suitable 
species): 

(a)  a minimum 45% of the area between the semi–detached dwellings and 

the primary road frontage; and 

(b)  a minimum 45% of the area between the semi–detached dwellings and 

the secondary road frontage; and 

(c)  plant at least one 75 litre tree between the semi–detached dwellings and 
the primary road frontage (refer to Appendix 5 for a list of suitable trees 
in  the  City  of  Bankstown  or  Appendix  6  for  allotments  that  adjoin  the 
Hume Highway); and 

(d) 

for  development  in  the  foreshore  protection  area  (refer  to  map  in 
Appendix  1),  plant  native  trees  with  a  mature  height  greater  than  12 
metres adjacent to the waterbody. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 6–ATTACHED DWELLINGS 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  ensure  the  building  form,  building  design  and  landscaping  of  attached 
dwellings are compatible with the suburban character of the medium and high 
density residential areas. 

(b)  To ensure the building form and building design of attached dwellings provide 
appropriate  amenity  to  residents  in  terms  of  private  open  space,  access  to 
sunlight and privacy. 

(c)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  attached  dwellings  do  not 
adversely impact on the amenity of neighbouring properties in terms of visual 
bulk, access to sunlight and privacy. 

(d)  To minimise the visual impact of off–street parking on the streetscape. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Storey limit (not including basements) 

6.1  The storey limit for attached dwellings is 2 storeys. 

6.2  The  siting  of  attached  dwellings  and  landscaping  works  must  be  compatible 
with  the  existing  slope  and  contours  of  the  allotment  and  any  adjoining 
property.    Council  does  not  allow  any  development  that  involves  elevated 
platforms on columns; or excessive or unnecessary terracing, rock excavation, 
retaining walls or reclamation. 

6.3  Any  reconstituted  ground  level  on  the  allotment  must  not  exceed  a  height  of 
600mm  above  the  ground  level  (existing)  of  an  adjoining  property  except 
where: 

(a) 

the  attached  dwellings  are  required  to  be  raised  to  achieve  a  suitable 
freeboard in accordance with Part B12 of this DCP; or 

(b) 

the  fill  is  contained  within  the  ground  floor  perimeter  of  the  attached 
dwellings  to  a  height  no  greater  than  1  metre  above  the  ground  level 
(existing) of the allotment. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Setbacks to the primary and secondary road frontages 

6.4  The minimum setback for a building wall to the primary road frontage is: 

(a)  5.5 metres for the first storey (i.e. the ground floor); and 

(b)  6.5 metres for the second storey. 

6.5  The minimum setback to the secondary road frontage is: 

(a)  3 metres for a building wall; and 

(b)  5.5 metres for a garage or carport that is attached to the building wall. 

Setbacks to the side boundary 

6.6  For the portion of the building wall that has a wall height less than or equal to 7 
metres,  the  minimum  setback  to  the  side  boundary  of  the  allotment  is  0.9 
metre. 

6.7  For the portion of the building wall that has a wall height greater than 7 metres, 
the minimum setback to the side boundary of the allotment is 1.5 metres. 

6.8  The  minimum  setback  for  a  driveway  to  the  side  and  rear  boundaries  of  the 

allotment is 1 metre. 

Private open space 

6.9  Attached  dwellings  must  provide  a  minimum  60m2  of  private  open  space  per 
dwelling behind the front building line.  This may be in the form of a single area 
or a sum of areas per dwelling provided the minimum width of each area is 5 
metres throughout. 

Access to sunlight 

6.10  At least one living area of each dwelling must receive a minimum 3 hours of 
sunlight  between  8.00am  and  4.00pm  at  the  mid–winter  solstice.    Council 
may  allow  light  wells  and  skylights  to  supplement  this  access  to  sunlight 
provided these building elements are not the primary source of sunlight to the 
living areas. 

6.11  At least one living area of a dwelling on an adjoining allotment must receive a 
minimum 3 hours of sunlight between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter 
solstice.   Where  this  requirement  cannot  be  met,  the  development  must  not 
result  with  additional  overshadowing  on  the  affected  living  areas  of  the 
dwelling. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

6.12  A minimum 50% of the private open space required for each dwelling and a 
minimum  50%  of  the  private  open  space  of  a  dwelling  on  an  adjoining 
allotment  must  receive  at  least  3  hours  of  sunlight  between  9.00am  and 
5.00pm at the equinox.  Where this requirement cannot be met for a dwelling 
on  an  adjoining  allotment,  the  development  must  not  result  with  additional 
overshadowing on the affected private open space. 

6.13  Development  should  avoid  overshadowing  any  existing  solar  hot  water 
system,  photovoltaic  panel  or  other  solar  collector  on  the  allotment  and 
neighbouring properties. 

Visual privacy 

6.14  Where development proposes a window that directly looks into the living area 

or bedroom window of an existing dwelling, the development must: 

(a)  offset the windows between dwellings to minimise overlooking; or 

(b)  provide the window with a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor 

level; or 

(c)  ensure the window cannot open and has obscure glazing to a minimum 

height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(d)  use another form of screening to the satisfaction of Council. 

6.15  Where  development  proposes  a  window  that  directly  looks  into  the  private 
open  space  of  an  existing  dwelling,  the  window  does  not  require  screening 
where: 

(a) 

the window is to a bedroom, bathroom, toilet, laundry, storage room, or 
other non–habitable room; or 

(b) 

the window has a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(c) 

the  window  has  translucent  glazing  to  a  minimum  height  of  1.5  metres 
above floor level; or 

(d) 

the window is designed to prevent overlooking of more than 50% of the 
private open space of a lower–level or adjoining dwelling. 

6.16  An  upper  floor  balcony  to  attached  dwellings  may  require  screening  where 
the  open  space  overlooks  more  than  50%  of  the  private  open  space  of  a 
lower level or neighbouring dwelling.  The screening must be in the form of a 
permanent fixed structure such as: 

(a)  a solid translucent screen or perforated panel that is: 

(i) 

durable and designed to blend in with the development; and 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(ii) 

the  sum  of  the  perforated  panel  openings  do  not  exceed  25%  of 
the total surface area; or 

(b)  another form of screening to the satisfaction of Council. 

6.17  Council does not allow attached dwellings to have roof–top balconies and the 

like. 

Building design 

6.18  Development for the purpose of attached dwellings must demolish all existing 

dwellings (not including any heritage items) on the allotment. 

6.19  The design of attached dwellings must: 

(a)  ensure  a  street  facade  incorporates  architectural  elements  that  are 
compatible  with  the  asymmetrical  appearance  of  neighbouring  dwelling 
houses,  particularly  where  a  pattern  is  established  by  a  group  of 
adjoining dwelling houses; and 

(b)  ensure the front porch and one or more living area or bedroom windows 

to the dwelling face the street; and 

(c)  ensure any garage, driveway and front fence do not dominate the front 

of the dwelling and front yard. 

6.20  The maximum roof pitch for attached dwellings is 35 degrees. 

6.21  Council  may  allow  attached  dwellings  to  have  an  attic  provided  the  attic 

design: 

(a)  accommodates  no  more  than  two  small  rooms  (for  the  purposes  of  a 
bedroom and/or study) and a bathroom plus an internal link to the storey 
below; and 

(b)  ensures the attic does not give the external appearance of a storey. 

6.22  The design of dormers must: 

(a)  be compatible with the form and pitch of the roof; and 

(b)  must not project above the ridgeline of the main roof; and 

(c)  must not exceed a width of 2 metres; and 

(d) 

the number of dormers must not dominate the roof plane. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

32 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Building design (car parking) 

6.23  Development must locate the car parking spaces behind the front building line 

with at least one covered car parking space for weather protection. 

Despite this clause, Council may allow one car parking space per dwelling to 
locate forward of the front building line provided: 

(a) 

the car parking space forward of the front building line is uncovered and 
located in a stacked arrangement on the driveway in front of the covered 
car parking space; and 

(b) 

the covered car parking space is setback a minimum 6 metres from the 
primary and secondary frontages. 

6.24  Where development proposes a garage with up to two car parking spaces per 
dwelling  facing  the  street,  Council  must  ensure  the  garage  architecturally 
integrates with the development and does not dominate the street facade. 

Building design (waste storage areas) 

6.25  The minimum size for the waste storage area is listed in Appendix 7. 

Landscaping 

6.26  Development  must  retain  and  protect  any  significant  trees  on  the  allotment 
and  adjoining  allotments.    To  achieve  this  clause,  the  development  may 
require a design alteration or a reduction in the size of the attached dwellings. 

6.27  Development must landscape the following areas on the allotment by way of 
trees  and  shrubs  with  preference  given  to  native  vegetation  endemic  to  the 
City  of  Bankstown  (refer  to  Appendix  4  and  Appendix  5  for  a  list  of  suitable 
species): 

(a)  a  minimum  45%  of  the  area  between  the  attached  dwellings  and  the 

primary road frontage; and 

(b)  a  minimum  45%  of  the  area  between  the  attached  dwellings  and  the 

secondary road frontage; and 

(c)  plant  at  least  one  75  litre  tree  between  the  attached  dwellings  and  the 
primary  road frontage (refer to Appendix  5 for  a  list of  suitable  trees  in 
the City of Bankstown or Appendix 6 for allotments that adjoin the Hume 
Highway). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

33 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 7–MULTI DWELLING HOUSING IN ZONE R2 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To ensure the building form, building design and landscaping of multi dwelling 
housing  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing  suburban  character  of  the 
residential areas, particularly the single dwelling suburban character of the low 
density residential areas. 

(b)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  multi  dwelling  housing 
provide  appropriate  amenity  to  residents  in  terms  of  private  open  space, 
access to sunlight and privacy. 

(c)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  multi  dwelling  housing  do 
not  adversely  impact  on  the  amenity  of  neighbouring  properties  in  terms  of 
visual bulk, access to sunlight and privacy. 

(d)  To  ensure  the  building  form  of  multi  dwelling  housing  in  the  foreshore 
protection  area  preserves  the  existing  topography,  land  and  rock  formations, 
and the unique ecology of natural bushland and mangrove areas. 

(e)  To provide adaptable dwellings to cater for the needs of senior residents and 

residents with disabilities. 

(f)  To minimise the visual impact of off–street parking on the streetscape. 

(g)  To ensure the building form and building design of multi dwelling housing are 

arranged without long lengths of walls in a straight line. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Storey limit (not including basements) 

7.1  The storey limit for multi dwelling housing is 2 storeys for front dwellings facing 

the street and single storey for the remaining dwellings at the rear. 

7.2  Despite clause 7.1, Council may allow the dwellings at the rear to have up to 2 
storeys provided the allotment is located at Nos. 81–83 and 105 Wattle Street 
in Punchbowl. 

7.3  The siting of multi dwelling housing and landscaping works must be compatible 
with  the  existing  slope  and  contours  of  the  allotment  and  any  adjoining 
property.    Council  does  not  allow  any  development  that  involves  elevated 
platforms on columns; or excessive or unnecessary terracing, rock excavation, 
retaining walls or reclamation. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

34 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

7.4  Any  reconstituted  ground  level  on  the  allotment  must  not  exceed  a  height  of 
600mm  above  the  ground  level  (existing)  of  an  adjoining  property  except 
where: 

(a) 

the multi dwelling housing are required to be raised to achieve a suitable 
freeboard in accordance with Part B12 of this DCP; or 

(b) 

the fill is contained within the ground floor perimeter of the multi dwelling 
housing  to  a  height  no  greater  than  1  metre  above  the  ground  level 
(existing) of the allotment. 

Setback restrictions 

7.5  The  erection  of  multi  dwelling  housing  is  prohibited  within  9  metres  of  an 

existing animal boarding or training establishment. 

Setbacks to the primary and secondary road frontages 

7.6  The minimum setback for a building wall to the primary road frontage is: 

(a)  5.5 metres for the first storey (i.e. the ground floor); and 

(b)  6.5 metres for the second storey. 

7.7  The minimum setback to the secondary road frontage is: 

(a)  4.5 metres for a building wall; and 

(b)  5.5 metres for a garage or carport that is attached to the building wall. 

Setbacks to the side and rear boundaries 

7.8  The minimum setback to the side and rear boundaries of the allotment is: 

(a)  5  metres  for  a  building  wall  that  contains  a  living  area  window  or  glass 

sliding door; and 

(b)  2 metres for a building wall that does not contain a living area window or 

glass sliding door; and 

(c)  subject to Council’s satisfaction, 0.9 metre for a garage or carport that is 

attached to the building wall. 

Despite  this  clause,  Council  may  allow  the  front  dwelling  to  multi  dwelling 
housing  to  achieve  the  same  minimum  setback  to  the  side  boundary  as 
dwelling houses provided the front dwelling gives the appearance of a dwelling 
house or a dual occupancy (attached) when viewed from the street. 

7.9  The  minimum  setback  for  a  driveway  to  the  side  and  rear  boundaries  of  the 

allotment is 1 metre. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

35 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Private open space 

7.10  Multi  dwelling  housing  must  provide  a  minimum  60m2  of  private  open  space 
per dwelling behind the front building line.  This may be in the form of a single 
area or a sum of areas per dwelling provided the minimum width of each area 
is 5 metres throughout. 

Despite  this  clause,  Council  may  allow  the  private  open  space  to  a  front 
dwelling  of  multi  dwelling  housing  to  project  forward  of  the  front  building  line 
provided: 

(a) 

the  allotment  has  a  single  road  frontage  and  that  road  frontage  is 
orientated to the north; and 

(b) 

(c) 

in  Council's  opinion,  the  development  will  not  achieve  the  minimum 
requirement  for  solar  access  should  the  private  open  space  to  a  front 
dwelling be located behind the front building line; and 

the area of the private open space forward of the front building line does 
not exceed 30% of the site area between the front dwelling and the street; 
and 

(d) 

the private open space is setback a minimum 3 metres from the primary 
frontage; and 

(e) 

the appearance of any external fence surrounding the private open space 
ensures: 

(i) 

(ii) 

the  section  of the fence  that  comprises  solid  construction  does  not 
exceed a fence height of 1 metre above natural ground level; and 

the  remaining  height  of  the  fence  comprises  an  open  style 
construction  (such  as  spaced  timber  pickets  or  wrought  iron)  that 
enhances and unifies the building design. 

Access to sunlight 

7.11  At least one living area of each dwelling must receive a minimum 3 hours of 
sunlight  between  8.00am  and  4.00pm  at  the  mid–winter  solstice.    Council 
may  allow  light  wells  and  skylights  to  supplement  this  access  to  sunlight 
provided these building elements are not the primary source of sunlight to the 
living areas. 

7.12  At least one living area of a dwelling on an adjoining allotment must receive a 
minimum 3 hours of sunlight between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter 
solstice.   Where  this  requirement  cannot  be  met,  the  development  must  not 
result  with  additional  overshadowing  on  the  affected  living  areas  of  the 
dwelling. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

36 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

7.13  A minimum 50% of the private open space required for each dwelling and a 
minimum  50%  of  the  private  open  space  of  a  dwelling  on  an  adjoining 
allotment  must  receive  at  least  3  hours  of  sunlight  between  9.00am  and 
5.00pm at the equinox.  Where this requirement cannot be met for a dwelling 
on  an  adjoining  allotment,  the  development  must  not  result  with  additional 
overshadowing on the affected private open space. 

7.14  Development  should  avoid  overshadowing  any  existing  solar  hot  water 
system,  photovoltaic  panel  or  other  solar  collector  on  the  allotment  and 
neighbouring properties. 

Visual privacy 

7.15  Where development proposes a window that directly looks into the living area 

or bedroom window of an existing dwelling, the development must: 

(a)  offset the windows between dwellings to minimise overlooking; or 

(b)  provide the window with a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor 

level; or 

(c)  ensure the window cannot open and has obscure glazing to a minimum 

height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(d)  use another form of screening to the satisfaction of Council. 

7.16  Where  development  proposes  a  window  that  directly  looks  into  the  private 
open  space  of  an  existing  dwelling,  the  window  does  not  require  screening 
where: 

(a) 

the window is to a bedroom, bathroom, toilet, laundry, storage room, or 
other non–habitable room; or 

(b) 

the window has a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(c) 

the  window  has  translucent  glazing  to  a  minimum  height  of  1.5  metres 
above floor level; or 

(d) 

the window is designed to prevent overlooking of more than 50% of the 
private open space of a lower–level or adjoining dwelling. 

7.17  An upper floor balcony to multi dwelling housing may require screening where 
the  open  space  overlooks  more  than  50%  of  the  private  open  space  of  a 
lower level or neighbouring dwelling.  The screening must be in the form of a 
permanent fixed structure such as: 

(a)  a solid translucent screen or perforated panel that is: 

(i) 

durable and designed to blend in with the development; and 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

37 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(ii) 

the  sum  of  the  perforated  panel  openings  do  not  exceed  25%  of 
the total surface area; or 

(b)  another form of screening to the satisfaction of Council. 

7.18  Council does not allow multi dwelling housing to have roof–top balconies and 

the like. 

Building design 

7.19  Development  for  the  purpose  of  multi  dwelling  housing  must  demolish  all 
existing dwellings (not including any heritage items) on the allotment. 

7.20  The design of the front dwellings to multi dwelling housing must: 

(a)  ensure  a  street  facade  incorporates  architectural  elements  that  are 
compatible  with  the  asymmetrical  appearance  of  neighbouring  dwelling 
houses,  particularly  where  a  pattern  is  established  by  a  group  of 
adjoining dwelling houses; and 

(b)  ensure the front porch and one or more living area or bedroom windows 

to the dwelling face the street; and 

(c)  ensure any garage, driveway and front fence do not dominate the front 

of the dwelling and front yard. 

7.21  The maximum roof pitch for multi dwelling housing is 35 degrees. 

7.22  Council  may  allow  multi  dwelling  housing  to  have  an  attic  provided  the  attic 

design: 

(a)  accommodates  no  more  than  two  small  rooms  (for  the  purposes  of  a 
bedroom and/or study) and a bathroom plus an internal link to the storey 
below; and 

(b)  ensures the attic does not give the external appearance of a storey. 

7.23  The design of dormers must: 

(a)  be compatible with the form and pitch of the roof; and 

(b)  must not project above the ridgeline of the main roof; and 

(c)  must not exceed a width of 2 metres; and 

(d) 

the number of dormers must not dominate the roof plane. 

7.24  Multi dwelling housing with 10 or more dwellings must provide one adaptable 

dwelling per 10 dwellings in accordance with AS 4299–Adaptable Housing. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

38 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

7.25  Development  in  the  foreshore  protection  area  (refer  to  map  in  Appendix  1) 
must  use  non–reflective  materials  that  are  compatible  with  the  natural 
characteristics  and  colours  of  the  area  (such  as  olive  green,  grey  and  dark 
brown). 

Building design (car parking) 

7.26  Development on land bounded by Birdwood Road, Bellevue Avenue and Rex 

Road in Georges Hall must: 

(a)  comply with the road pattern shown in Appendix 2; and 

(b)  ensure vehicle access from Balmoral Crescent to land at Nos. 107–113 
Rex Road in Georges Hall is provided for no more than 10 dwellings as 
shown in Appendix 3. 

7.27  The  design  and  siting  of  car  parking  structures  and  driveways  must  ensure 
vehicles can leave the allotment in a forward direction.  This clause does not 
apply  to  a  front  dwelling  to  multi  dwelling  housing  provided  the  dwelling  is 
designed  to  give  the  appearance  of  a  dwelling  house  or  a  dual  occupancy 
(attached) when viewed from the street. 

7.28  Development must locate the car parking spaces behind the front building line 
with at least one covered car parking space for weather protection.  Despite 
this  clause,  Council  may  allow  one  car  parking  space  of  a  front  dwelling  to 
multi dwelling housing to locate forward of the front building line provided: 

(a) 

the car parking space forward of the front building line is uncovered and 
located in a stacked arrangement on the driveway in front of the covered 
car parking space; and 

(b) 

the covered car parking space is setback a minimum 6 metres from the 
primary and secondary frontages. 

7.29  Where development proposes a garage with up to two car parking spaces per 
dwelling  facing  the  street,  Council  must  ensure  the  garage  architecturally 
integrates with the development and does not dominate the street facade. 

Building design (waste storage areas) 

7.30  The minimum size for the waste storage area is listed in Appendix 7. 

Landscaping 

7.31  Development  must  retain  and  protect  any  significant  trees  on  the  allotment 
and  adjoining  allotments.    To  achieve  this  clause,  the  development  may 
require  a  design  alteration  or  a  reduction  in  the  size  of  the  multi  dwelling 
housing. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

39 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

7.32  Development must landscape the following areas on the allotment by way of 
trees  and  shrubs  with  preference  given  to  native  vegetation  endemic  to  the 
City  of  Bankstown  (refer  to  Appendix  4  and  Appendix  5 for  a  list  of  suitable 
species): 

(a)  a minimum 45% of the area between the multi dwelling housing and the 

primary road frontage; and 

(b)  a minimum 45% of the area between the multi dwelling housing and the 

secondary road frontage; and 

(c)  plant  at  least  one  75  litre  tree  between  the  multi  dwelling  housing  and 
the primary road frontage (refer to Appendix 5 for a list of suitable trees 
in  the  City  of  Bankstown  or  Appendix  6  for  allotments  that  adjoin  the 
Hume Highway); and 

(d) 

for  development  in  the  foreshore  protection  area  (refer  to  map  in 
Appendix  1),  plant  native  trees  with  a  mature  height  greater  than  12 
metres adjacent to the waterbody. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

40 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 8–MULTI DWELLING HOUSING IN ZONES R3 AND R4 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To ensure multi dwelling housing provides a suitable visual transition between 

high density residential areas and low density residential areas. 

(b)  To ensure multi dwelling housing has regard to local amenity for residents and 

neighbouring properties in terms of access to sunlight and privacy. 

(c)  To require landscape as a key characteristic in the development. 

(d)  To minimise the visual impact of off–street parking on the streetscape. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Isolation of allotments  

8.1  The  consent  authority  must  not  grant  consent  to  any  development  on  land 
within Zone R4 High Density Residential if the proposed development will have 
the effect of isolating land with an area of less than 1,200m2 and a width of less 
than  20  metres  at  the  front  building  line  so  as  to  preclude  the  reasonable 
development of that land. 

Storey limit (not including basements) 

8.2  The storey limit for multi dwelling housing is 3 storeys.  Council does not allow 

attics. 

Setbacks to the primary and secondary frontages 

8.3  The  minimum  setback  for  a  building  wall  to  the  primary  and  secondary 

frontages is 5.5 metres. 

Setbacks to the side boundaries 

8.4  The  minimum  setback  for  a  building  wall  to  the  side  boundary  is  0.9  metres 
except  for  east–west  orientated  allotments  of  land  where  the  minimum  side 
setback to the southern boundary is 3 metres.  The intended outcome of the 3 
metre setback is to minimise overshadowing on adjoining properties. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

41 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Private open space 

8.5  Multi  dwelling  housing  must  provide  a  minimum  50m2  of  private  open  space 
per dwelling behind the front building line.  This may be in the form of a single 
area or a sum of areas per dwelling provided the minimum width of each area 
is 5 metres throughout. 

Density 

8.6  The  site  area  per  dwelling  (excluding  the  area  of  access  handles  or  rights  of 

way for access) must not be less than 175 square metres. 

Access to sunlight 

8.7  At  least  one  living  area  of  each  dwelling  must  receive  a  minimum  3  hours  of 
sunlight between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter solstice.  Council may 
allow  light  wells  and  skylights  to  supplement  this  access  to  sunlight  provided 
these  building  elements  are  not  the  primary  source  of  sunlight  to  the  living 
areas. 

8.8  At least one living area of a dwelling on an adjoining allotment must receive a 
minimum  3  hours  of  sunlight  between  8.00am  and  4.00pm  at  the  mid–winter 
solstice.    Where  this  requirement  cannot  be  met,  the  development  must  not 
result  with  additional  overshadowing  on  the  affected  living  areas  of  the 
dwelling. 

8.9  A  minimum  50%  of  the  private  open  space  required  for  each  dwelling  and  a 
minimum  50%  of  the  private  open  space  of  a  dwelling  on  an  adjoining 
allotment  must  receive  at  least  3  hours  of  sunlight  between  9.00am  and 
5.00pm at the equinox.  Where this requirement cannot be met for a dwelling 
on  an  adjoining  allotment,  the  development  must  not  result  with  additional 
overshadowing on the affected private open space. 

Visual privacy 

8.10  Where development proposes a window that directly looks into the living area 

or bedroom window of an existing dwelling, the development must: 

(a)  offset the windows between dwellings to minimise overlooking; or 

(b)  provide the window  with a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor 

level; or 

(c)  ensure  the  window  cannot  open  and has  obscure  glazing  to  a  minimum 

height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(d)  use another form of screening to the satisfaction of Council. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

42 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

8.11  Where  development  proposes  a  window  that  directly  looks  into  the  private 
open  space  of  an  existing  dwelling,  the  window  does  not  require  screening 
where: 

(a) 

the window is to a bedroom, bathroom, toilet, laundry, storage room, or 
other non–habitable room; or 

(b) 

the window has a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(c) 

the  window  has  translucent  glazing  to  a  minimum  height  of  1.5  metres 
above floor level; or 

(d) 

the window is designed to prevent overlooking of more than 50% of the 
private open space of a lower–level or adjoining dwelling. 

8.12  Council does not allow multi dwelling housing to have roof–top balconies and 

the like. 

Building design (car parking) 

8.13  Multi dwelling housing must provide: 

(a)  a minimum 1 car space per dwelling with 2 or less bedrooms; and 

(b)  a minimum 2 car spaces per dwelling with 3 or more bedrooms; and 

(c)  must locate the car parking spaces behind the front building line. 

Building design (waste storage areas) 

8.14  The minimum size for the waste storage area is listed in Appendix 7. 

Landscaping 

8.15  Development  must  retain  and  protect  any  significant  trees  on  the  allotment 
and  adjoining  allotments.    To  achieve  this  clause,  the  development  may 
require  a  design  alteration  or  a  reduction  in  the  size  of  the  multi  dwelling 
housing. 

8.16  Development must landscape the following areas on the allotment by way of 
trees  and  shrubs  with  preference  given  to  native  vegetation  endemic  to  the 
City  of  Bankstown  (refer  to  Appendix  4  and  Appendix  5 for  a  list  of  suitable 
species): 

(a)  a minimum 45% of the area between the multi dwelling housing and the 

primary frontage; and 

(b)  plant  at  least  one  75  litre  tree  between  the  multi  dwelling  housing  and 
the primary frontage (refer to Appendix 5 for a list of suitable trees in the 
City  of  Bankstown  or  Appendix  6  for  allotments  that  adjoin  the  Hume 
Highway). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

43 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Illustration: Concept of multi dwelling housing 

Illustration: Concept of basement car parking layout 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

44 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION  9–RESIDENTIAL  FLAT  BUILDINGS,  SERVICED  APARTMENTS  AND 
SHOP TOP HOUSING 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To ensure the building form, building design and landscaping of residential flat 
buildings,  serviced  apartments  and  shop  top  housing  are  compatible  with  the 
suburban character of the high density residential areas. 

(b)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  residential  flat  buildings, 
serviced  apartments  and  shop  top  housing  provide  appropriate  amenity  to 
residents in terms of access to sunlight and privacy. 

(c)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  residential  flat  buildings, 
serviced  apartments  and  shop  top  housing  do  not  adversely  impact  on  the 
amenity  of  neighbouring  properties  in  terms  of  visual  bulk,  access  to  sunlight 
and privacy. 

(d)  To provide adaptable dwellings to cater for the needs of senior residents and 

residents with disabilities. 

(e)  To minimise the visual impact of off–street parking on the streetscape. 

(f)  To  ensure  the  building  design  and  materials  reduce  the  opportunities  for 

vandalism and graffiti. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Isolation of allotments  

9.1  The  consent  authority  must  not  grant  consent  to  any  development  on  land 
within Zone R4 High Density Residential if the proposed development will have 
the effect of isolating land with an area of less than 1,200m2 and a width of less 
than  20  metres  at  the  front  building  line  so  as  to  preclude  the  reasonable 
development of that land. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

45 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Storey limit (not including basements) 

9.2  Development  must  comply  with  the  storey  limit  that  corresponds  with  the 
maximum building height shown for the site on the Height of Building Map as 
follows: 

Maximum building height as shown on the Height 
of Buildings Map (Bankstown LEP 2015) 

13 metres 
16 metres 
19 metres 
25 metres 

Storey limit (not 
including basements) 
4 storeys (no attic) 
5 storeys (no attic) 
6 storeys (no attic) 
8 storeys (no attic) 

Illustration: Storey limit and maximum building height 

9.3  The  siting  of  residential  flat  buildings,  serviced  apartments,  shop  top  housing 
and  landscaping  works  must  be  compatible  with  the  existing  slope  and 
contours  of  the allotment and  any  adjoining property.    Council  does  not  allow 
any development that involves elevated platforms on columns; or excessive or 
unnecessary terracing, rock excavation, retaining walls or reclamation. 

9.4  Any  reconstituted  ground  level  on  the  allotment  must  not  exceed  a  height  of 

600mm above the natural ground level of an adjoining property except where: 

(a) 

(b) 

the  residential  flat  building,  serviced  apartments  or  shop  top  housing  is 
required to be raised to achieve a suitable freeboard in accordance with 
Part B12 of this DCP; or 

the fill is contained within the ground floor perimeter of the residential flat 
building, serviced apartments or shop top housing to a height no greater 
than 1 metre above the natural ground level of the allotment. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

46 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Setbacks to the primary and secondary frontages 

9.5  The minimum setback for a building wall to the primary frontage is: 

(a)  3  metres  for  the  allotments  at  Nos.1–9  Leonard  Street  and  Nos.  74–80 

Restwell Street in Bankstown; and 

(b)  6 metres for all other allotments. 

9.6  The minimum setback for a building wall to the secondary frontage is 6 metres. 

Setbacks to the side and rear boundaries 

9.7 

9.8 

For  a  single  or  2  storey  building,  the  minimum  setback  to  the  side  and  rear 
boundaries of the allotment is 0.6 multiplied by the wall height. 

For  a  building  with  3  or  more  storeys,  the minimum  setback  to the  side and 
rear boundaries of the allotment is 4.5 metres provided the average setback 
is 0.6 multiplied by the wall height. 

9.9  Residential  flat  buildings,  serviced  apartments  and  shop  top  housing 
(including basements) must provide a minimum 5 metre setback to Ruse Park 
for the purposes of deep soil landscaping. 

9.10  The minimum setback for a basement level to the side and rear boundaries of 

the allotment is 2 metres. 

9.11  The minimum setback for a driveway to the side and rear boundaries of the 

allotment is 1 metre. 

Private open space 

9.12  Development  must  locate  the  private  open  space  behind  the  front  building 
line.  This clause does not apply to any balconies where it is used to provide 
articulation to the street facade. 

Building design 

9.12A Council  applies  the  design  quality  principles  of  State  Environment  Planning 
Policy No. 65–Design Quality of Residential Apartment Development and the 
Apartment Design Guide to residential flat buildings, serviced apartments and 
shop  top  housing.    This  includes  buildings  that  are  two  storeys  or  less,  or 
contain less than four dwellings. 

9.13  Development for the purpose of residential flat buildings, serviced apartments 
and shop top housing must demolish all existing dwellings (not including any 
heritage items) on the allotment. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

47 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

9.14  Residential flat buildings, serviced apartments and shop top housing with 10 
or  more  dwellings  must  provide  at  least  one  adaptable  dwelling  plus  an 
adaptable  dwelling  for  every  50  dwellings  in  accordance  with  AS  4299–
Adaptable Housing. 

9.15  The maximum roof pitch for residential flat buildings, serviced apartments and 

shop top housing is 35 degrees. 

9.16  Council  may  allow  residential  flat  buildings  (up  to  3  storeys),  serviced 
apartments (up to 3 storeys) and shop top housing (up to 3 storeys) to have 
an attic provided the attic design: 

(a)  accommodates  no  more  than  two  small  rooms  (for  the  purposes  of  a 
bedroom and/or study) and a bathroom plus an internal link to the storey 
below; and 

(b)  ensures the attic does not give the external appearance of a storey. 

9.17  The design of dormers must: 

(a)  be compatible with the form and pitch of the roof; and 

(b)  must not project above the ridgeline of the main roof; and 

(c)  must not exceed a width of 2 metres; and 

(d) 

the number of dormers must not dominate the roof plane. 

9.18  Council  does  not  allow  residential  flat  buildings,  serviced  apartments  and 

shop top housing with 4 or more storeys to have attics. 

9.19  Council  does  not  allow  residential  flat  buildings,  serviced  apartments  and 

shop top housing to have roof–top balconies and the like. 

9.20  The  siting  of  a  plant  room,  lift  motor  room,  mechanical  ventilation  stack, 

exhaust stack, and the like must: 

(a) 

integrate  with  the  architectural  features  of  the  building  to  which  it  is 
attached; or 

(b)  be sufficiently screened when viewed from the street and neighbouring 

properties. 

Building design (car parking) 

9.21  Development  must  locate  the  car  parking  spaces  behind  the  front  building 

line. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

48 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Building design (waste storage areas) 

9.22  The minimum size for the waste storage area is listed in Appendix 7.  Council 
may allow the waste storage area to be located forward of the front building 
line  provided  it  is  setback  a  minimum  1.5  metres  from  the  primary  and 
secondary  frontages, and  the  setback area is  planted  with  native  vegetation 
(refer to Appendix 4 for a list of suitable species). 

Landscaping 

9.23  Development  must  retain  and  protect  any  significant  trees  on  the  allotment 
and  adjoining  allotments.    To  achieve  this  clause,  the  development  may 
require  a  design  alteration  or  a  reduction  in  the  size  of  the  residential  flat 
building, serviced apartments and shop top housing. 

9.24  Development must landscape the following areas on the allotment by way of 
trees  and  shrubs  with  preference  given  to  native  vegetation  endemic  to  the 
City  of  Bankstown  (refer  to  Appendix  4  and  Appendix  5 for  a  list  of  suitable 
species): 

(a)  a  minimum  45%  of  the  area  between  the  building  and  the  primary 

frontage; and 

(b)  a  minimum  45%  of  the  area  between  the  building  and  the  secondary 

frontage; and 

(c)  plant more  than  one  75  litre  tree  between  the  building  and  the  primary 
frontage  (refer  to  Appendix  5  for  a  list  of  suitable  trees  in  the  City  of 
Bankstown); or 

(i) 

(ii) 

if  the  allotment  adjoins  the  Hume  Highway  and  the  minimum 
setback  to  the  Hume  Highway  is  less  than  20  metres,  the 
development must plant a row of 75 litre trees at 5 metre intervals 
along  the  length  of  the  Hume  Highway  boundary  and  must  select 
the trees from the list in Appendix 6; or 

if  the  allotment  adjoins  the  Hume  Highway  and  the  minimum 
setback to the Hume Highway is 20 metres, the development must 
plant two rows of 75 litre trees at 5 metre intervals along the length 
of the Hume Highway boundary and must select the trees from the 
list in Appendix 6. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

49 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Security 

9.25  Where  the  allotment  shares  a  boundary  with  a  railway  corridor  or  an  open 
stormwater  drain,  any  building,  solid  fence  or  car  park  on  the  allotment 
should,  wherever  practical,  be  setback  a  minimum  1.5  metres  from  that 
boundary.  The setback distance must be: 

(a) 

treated  with  hedging  or  climbing  vines  to  screen  the  building,  solid 
fence,  or  car  park  when  viewed  from  the  railway  corridor  or  open 
stormwater drain; and 

(b) 

the hedging or climbing vines must be planted prior to the completion of 
the development using a minimum 300mm pot size; and 

(c) 

the planter bed area must incorporate a commercial grade, sub–surface, 
automatic, self–timed irrigation system; and 

(d) 

the  allotment  must  be  fenced  along  the  boundary  using  a  minimum  2 
metre high chain–wire fence; and 

(e) 

the  fence  provides  an  appropriate  access  point  to  maintain  the 
landscaping within the setback area; and 

(f)  where a car park adjoins the boundary, hedging or climbing vines must 
also  be  planted  along  the  sides  of  any  building  or  solid  fence  on  the 
allotment that face the railway corridor or open stormwater drain. 

If a setback for landscaping under this clause is not practical, other means to 
avoid  graffiti  must  be  employed  that  satisfies  Council’s  graffiti  minimisation 
strategy. 

Shop top housing (ground floor retail premises and business premises) 

9.26  The  sum  of  the  gross  floor  area  of  all  the  ground  floor  retail  premises  and 

business premises must not exceed 90m2. 

9.27  Development  must  provide  an  active  street  frontage  and  may  include  large, 
transparent  windows  on  the  street  elevation  that  enable  the  perception  of 
indoor  activity  to  be  obtained  from  the  public  domain.    Council  does  not 
permit solid roller doors and shutters. 

9.28  Business identification signs must comply with the following controls: 

(a)  Council  permits  only  one  sign  per  retail  premises  and  business 

premises; 

(b) 

the total sign area must not exceed 1.2 metre x 0.6 metre; 

(c) 

the sign is to be located on or behind the building line; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

50 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(d) 

the sign is to be located at or below the awning level.  Where there is no 
awning to the building, the sign is solely permitted below the window sill 
of the second storey windows; 

(e) 

if the sign is painted or attached to a building, the sign must not screen 
windows and other significant architectural features of the building; 

(f) 

the sign is to be non–illuminated; and 

(g)  Council  does  not  permit  flashing  signs,  flashing  lights,  signs  which 
incorporate  devices  which  change  colour,  signs  where  movement  can 
be  recognised  by  a  passing  motorist,  signs  that  are  not  permanently 
fixed to the site, and signs made of canvas, calico or the like. 

9.29  Corporate  colours,  logos  and  other  graphics  must  achieve  a  high  degree  of 
compatibility  with  the  architecture,  materials,  finishes  and  colours  of  the 
building and the streetscape. 

9.30  Council  may  limit  the  hours  of  operation  of  the  ground  floor  retail  premises 

and business premises from 6.30am to 6.00pm seven days a week. 

9.31  Council  must  consider  the  following  matters  to  ensure  development  for  the 
purposes  of  the  ground  floor  retail  premises  and  business  premises  has  a 
minimal  impact  on  the  amenity  of  adjoining  dwellings  and  neighbouring 
properties: 

(a) 

the likely number of vehicle, delivery and visitor movements; 

(b) 

the size of delivery vehicles associated with the proposed development; 

(c)  whether any goods, plant, equipment and other material used in carrying 
out the proposed development will be stored or suitably screened from 
dwellings; 

(d)  whether  noise  generation  from  fixed  sources  or  motor  vehicles 
associated  with  the  proposed  development  will  be  effectively  insulated 
or otherwise minimised; and 

(e)  whether  the  proposed  development  will  otherwise  cause  nuisance  to 
residents,  by  way  of  hours  of  operation,  traffic  movement,  parking, 
headlight glare, security lighting, vibration, fumes, gases, smoke, dust or 
odours, or the like. 

9.32  All  loading  and  unloading  is  to  be  undertaken  on–site.    The  loading  and 

unloading areas should locate behind the front building line. 

9.33  Shop top housing must provide at least two waste storage areas to separately 

cater for the dwellings and non–residential uses on an allotment. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

51 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

9.34  Development  must  provide  waste  storage  areas  inside  every  food  premises 
and inside any shop that is capable of accommodating a food premises. 

9.35  Development must locate waste storage areas inside the building or adjacent 

to a lane where it is: 

(a)  convenient  and  safe  for  residents,  tenants,  and  waste  collection  trucks 

to access the waste storage area; and 

(b) 

the location and floor level are to the satisfaction of Council. 

9.36  The minimum size for waste storage areas in connection to the ground floor 
retail premises and business premises is a minimum length of 3 metres and a 
minimum width of 3 metres. 

9.37  With any waste storage area: 

(a) 

the wall height must ensure people can walk into the waste storage area 
and the lid of a waste bin can be opened with ease; and 

(b)  Council may increase the minimum dimensions for a commercial waste 
storage  area  depending  on  the  likely  use  of  the  business  and  retail 
premises and the frequency of collection services. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

52 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 10–BOARDING HOUSES 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  ensure  the  building  form,  building  design  and  landscaping  of  boarding 
houses are compatible with the suburban character of the residential areas. 

(b)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  boarding  houses  provide 
appropriate amenity to residents in terms of access to sunlight and privacy. 

(c)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  boarding  houses  do  not 
adversely impact on the amenity of neighbouring properties in terms of visual 
bulk, access to sunlight and privacy. 

(d)  To provide adaptable boarding rooms to cater for the needs of senior residents 

and residents with disabilities. 

(e)  To minimise the visual impact of off–street parking on the streetscape. 

(f)  To require landscape as a key characteristic in the development. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Isolation of allotments  

10.1  The  consent  authority  must  not  grant  consent  to  any  development  on  land 
within  Zone  R4  High  Density  Residential  if  the  proposed  development  will 
have the effect of isolating land with an area of less than 1,200m2 and a width 
of  less  than  20  metres  at  the  front  building  line  so  as  to  preclude  the 
reasonable development of that land. 

Storey limit (not including basements) 

10.2  The  storey  limit  for  boarding  houses  in  Zone  R2  is  2  storeys  for  a  dwelling 
(including  boarding  rooms)  facing  a  road  and  single  storey  for  all  other 
dwellings (including boarding rooms) at the rear of the lot.   

10.3  The storey limit for boarding houses in Zone R3 and boarding houses in Zone 
R4 is 3 storeys.  Despite this clause, Council may allow boarding houses to 
have up to 4 storeys provided the allotment is located within: 

(a) 

the  area  bounded  by  Rookwood  Road,  Davis  Lane,  and  school  land 
(also  known  as  Nos.  11–31  Rookwood  Road,  Yagoona,  but  not 
including No. 27C Rookwood Road; or 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

53 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b) 

the area bounded by The Boulevarde and Kearns Lane (also known as 
Nos. 1–7 The Boulevarde and 1 Kearns Lane, Yagoona) subject to the 
provision of a two storey buffer along The Boulevarde street frontage. 

10.4  The  siting  of  boarding  houses,  and  landscaping  works  must  be  compatible 
with  the  existing  slope  and  contours  of  the  allotment  and  any  adjoining 
property.    Council  does  not  allow  any  development  that  involves  elevated 
terracing,  rock 
platforms  on  columns;  or  excessive  or  unnecessary 
excavation, retaining walls or reclamation. 

10.5  Any reconstituted ground level on the allotment must not exceed a height of 
600mm  above  the  ground  level  (existing)  of  an  adjoining  property  except 
where: 

(a)  boarding  houses  are  required  to  be  raised  to  achieve  a  suitable 

freeboard in accordance with Part B12 of this DCP; or 

(b) 

the fill is contained within the ground floor perimeter of boarding houses 
to a height no greater than 1 metre above the ground level (existing) of 
the allotment. 

Setback restrictions 

10.6  The  erection  of  boarding  houses  is  prohibited  within  9  metres  of  an  existing 

animal boarding or training establishment. 

Setbacks in Zone R2 

10.7  The minimum setback for a building wall to the primary road frontage is: 

(a)  5.5 metres for the first storey (i.e. the ground floor); and 

(b)  6.5 metres for the second storey. 

10.8  The minimum setback to the secondary road frontage is: 

(a)  3 metres for a building wall; and 

(b)  5.5 metres for a garage or carport that is attached to the building wall. 

10.9  For the portion of the building wall that has a wall height less than or equal to 
7  metres,  the  minimum  setback  to  the  side  boundary  of  the  allotment  is  0.9 
metre. 

10.10  For  the  portion  of  the  building  wall  that  has  a  wall  height  greater  than  7 
metres,  the  minimum  setback  to  the  side  boundary  of  the  allotment  is  1.5 
metres. 

10.11  The  basement  level  must  not  project  beyond  the  ground  floor  perimeter  of 

boarding houses. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

54 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Setbacks in Zones R3 and R4 

10.12  The  minimum  setback  for  a  building  wall  to  the  primary  road  frontage  is  6 

metres. 

10.13  The minimum setback for a building wall to the secondary road frontage is 6 

metres. 

10.14  For  a  single  or  2  storey  building,  the  minimum  setback  to  the  side  and  rear 

boundaries of the allotment is 0.6 multiplied by the wall height. 

10.15  For  a  building  with  3  or  more  storeys,  the minimum  setback  to the  side and 
rear boundaries of the allotment is 4.5 metres provided the average setback 
is 0.6 multiplied by the wall height. 

10.16  The minimum setback for a basement level to the side and rear boundaries of 

the allotment is 2 metres. 

10.17  The minimum setback for a driveway to the side and rear boundaries of the 

allotment is 1 metre. 

Private open space 

10.18  Boarding houses must provide: 

(a)  one area of at least 20m2 with a minimum dimension of 3 metres for the 

use of the lodgers; and 

(b) 

if accommodation is provided on site for a boarding house manager, one 
area of at least 8m2 with a minimum dimension of 2.5 metres is provided 
adjacent to that accommodation. 

10.19  Development  must  locate  the  private  open  space  behind  the  front  building 
line.  This clause does not apply to any balconies where it is used to provide 
articulation to the street facade. 

Access to sunlight 

10.20  At least 70% of boarding rooms must receive a minimum 3 hours of sunlight 
between 8.00am  and 4.00pm  at  the mid–winter  solstice.    Council may  allow 
light wells and skylights to supplement this access to sunlight provided these 
building elements are not the primary source of sunlight to the living areas. 

10.21  Where the development provides for one or more communal living rooms, at 
least one of those rooms must receive a minimum of 3 hours direct sunlight 
between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter solstice. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

55 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

10.22  At least one living area of a dwelling on an adjoining allotment must receive a 
minimum 3 hours of sunlight between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter 
solstice.   Where  this  requirement  cannot  be  met,  the  development  must  not 
result  with  additional  overshadowing  on  the  affected  living  areas  of  the 
dwelling. 

10.23  A minimum 50% of the private open space required for boarding houses and 
a  minimum  50%  of  the  private  open  space  of  a  dwelling  on  an  adjoining 
allotment  must  receive  at  least  3  hours  of  sunlight  between  9.00am  and 
5.00pm at the equinox.  Where this requirement cannot be met for a dwelling 
on  an  adjoining  allotment,  the  development  must  not  result  with  additional 
overshadowing on the affected private open space. 

10.24  Development  should  avoid  overshadowing  any  existing  solar  hot  water 
system,  photovoltaic  panel  or  other  solar  collector  on  the  allotment  and 
neighbouring properties. 

Visual privacy 

10.25  Where development proposes a window that directly looks into the living area 

or bedroom window of an existing dwelling, the development must: 

(a)  offset the windows between dwellings to minimise overlooking; or 

(b)  provide the window with a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor 

level; or 

(c)  ensure the window cannot open and has obscure glazing to a minimum 

height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(d)  use another form of screening to the satisfaction of Council. 

10.26  Where  development  proposes  a  window  that  directly  looks  into  the  private 
open  space  of  an  existing  dwelling,  the  window  does  not  require  screening 
where: 

(a) 

the window is to a bedroom, bathroom, toilet, laundry, storage room, or 
other non–habitable room; or 

(b) 

the window has a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(c) 

the  window  has translucent  glazing  to  a  minimum  height  of  1.5  metres 
above floor level; or 

(d) 

the window is designed to prevent overlooking of more than 50% of the 
private open space of a lower–level or adjoining dwelling. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

56 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

10.27  Council  may  allow  boarding  houses  in  Zones  R2  and  R3  to  have  an  upper 
floor  side  or  rear  balcony  solely  where  the  balcony  is  not  accessible  from  a 
living area or hallway, and the balcony design: 

(a)  does not have an external staircase; and 

(b)  does not exceed a width of 1.5 metres throughout; and 

(c) 

incorporates  a  form  of  screening  to  the  satisfaction  of  Council  such  as 
partially recessing the balcony into the building. 

10.28  Council  does not  allow  boarding  houses  to have  roof–top  balconies  and  the 

like. 

Building design 

10.29  Council applies the design quality principles of State Environmental Planning 
Policy No 65–Design Quality of Residential Apartment Development and the 
Apartment Design Guide to boarding houses.  This includes buildings that are 
two storeys or less, or contain less than four dwellings. 

10.30  Boarding houses must satisfy each of the following: 

(a) 

if  a  boarding  house  has  5  or  more  boarding  rooms,  at  least  one 
communal living room will be provided; and 

(b) 

if each boarding room has a gross floor area (excluding any area used 
for the purposes of private kitchen or bathroom facilities) of at least: 

(i) 

12m2  in  the  case  of  a  boarding  room  intended  to  be  used  by  a 
single lodger, or 

(ii)  16m2 in any other case; and 

(c)  no boarding room will have a gross floor area (excluding any area used 
for  the  purposes  of  private  kitchen  or  bathroom  facilities)  of  more  than 
25m2; and 

(d)  no boarding room will be occupied by more than 2 adult lodgers; and 

(e)  adequate  bathroom  and  kitchen  facilities  will  be  available  within  the 

boarding house for the use of each lodger; and 

(f) 

if the boarding house has capacity to accommodate 20 or more lodgers, 
a  boarding  room  or  on  site  dwelling  will  be  provided  for  a  boarding 
house manager; and 

(g)  at least one parking space will be provided for a bicycle, and one will be 

provided for a motorcycle, for every 5 boarding rooms. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

57 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

10.31  The maximum roof pitch for boarding houses is 35 degrees. 

10.32  Council does not allow boarding houses to have attics. 

10.33  The  siting  of  a  plant  room,  lift  motor  room,  mechanical  ventilation  stack, 

exhaust stack, and the like must: 

(a) 

integrate  with  the  architectural  features  of  the  building  to  which  it  is 
attached; or 

(b)  be sufficiently screened when viewed from the street and neighbouring 

properties. 

10.34  Development  for  the  purpose  of  boarding  houses  must  demolish  all  existing 

dwellings (not including any heritage items) on the allotment. 

10.35  Boarding houses with 10 or more boarding rooms must provide at least one 
adaptable  boarding  room  plus  an  adaptable  boarding  room  for  every  50 
boarding rooms in accordance with AS 4299–Adaptable Housing. 

10.36  Development  in  the  foreshore  protection  area  (refer  to  map  in  Appendix  1) 
must  use  non–reflective  materials  that  are  compatible  with  the  natural 
characteristics  and  colours  of  the  area  (such  as  olive  green,  grey  and  dark 
brown). 

Building design (car parking) 

10.37  Development on land bounded by Birdwood Road, Bellevue Avenue and Rex 

Road in Georges Hall must: 

(a)  comply with the road pattern shown in Appendix 2; and 

(b)  ensure vehicle access from Balmoral Crescent to land at Nos. 107–113 
Rex Road in Georges Hall is provided for no more than 10 dwellings as 
shown in Appendix 3. 

10.38  The  design  and  siting  of  car  parking  structures  and  driveways  must  ensure 

vehicles can leave the allotment in a forward direction. 

10.39  Development  must  locate  the  car  parking  spaces  behind  the  front  building 

line. 

10.40  Council  must  ensure 

the  garage  architecturally 
development and does not dominate the street facade. 

integrates  with 

the 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

58 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Building design (waste storage areas) 

10.41  The minimum size for the waste storage area is listed in Appendix 7.  Council 
may allow the waste storage area to be located forward of the front building 
line  provided  it  is  setback  a  minimum  1.5  metres  from  the  primary  and 
secondary  frontages, and  the  setback area is  planted  with  native  vegetation 
(refer to Appendix 4 for a list of suitable species). 

Landscaping 

10.42  Development  must  retain  and  protect  any  significant  trees  on  the  allotment 
and  adjoining  allotments.    To  achieve  this  clause,  the  development  may 
require a design alteration or a reduction in the size of boarding houses. 

10.43  Development must landscape the following areas on the allotment by way of 
trees  and  shrubs  with  preference  given  to  native  vegetation  endemic  to  the 
City  of  Bankstown  (refer  to  Appendix  4  and  Appendix  5 for  a  list  of  suitable 
species): 

(a)  a  minimum  45%  of  the  area  between  the  boarding  house  and  the 

primary frontage; and 

(b)  a  minimum  45%  of  the  area  between  the  boarding  house  and  the 

secondary frontage; and 

(c)  plant  more  than  one  75  litre  tree  between  the  boarding  house  and  the 
primary  frontage  (refer  to  Appendix  5  for  a  list  of  suitable  trees  in  the 
City of Bankstown); or 

(i) 

(ii) 

if  the  allotment  adjoins  the  Hume  Highway  and  the  minimum 
setback  to  the  Hume  Highway  is  less  than  20  metres,  the 
development must plant a row of 75 litre trees at 5 metre intervals 
along  the  length  of  the  Hume  Highway  boundary  and  must  select 
the trees from the list in Appendix 6; or 

if  the  allotment  adjoins  the  Hume  Highway  and  the  minimum 
setback to the Hume Highway is 20 metres, the development must 
plant two rows of 75 litre trees at 5 metre intervals along the length 
of the Hume Highway boundary and must select the trees from the 
list in Appendix 6; and 

(d) 

for  development  in  the  foreshore  protection  area  (refer  to  map  in 
Appendix  1),  the  development  must  plant  native  trees  with  a  mature 
height greater than 12 metres adjacent to the waterbody. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

59 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Security 

10.44  Where  the  allotment  shares  a  boundary  with  a  railway  corridor  or  an  open 
stormwater  drain,  any  building,  solid  fence  or  car  park  on  the  allotment 
should,  wherever  practical,  be  setback  a  minimum  1.5  metres  from  that 
boundary.  The setback distance must be: 

(a) 

treated  with  hedging  or  climbing  vines  to  screen  the  building,  solid 
fence,  or  car  park  when  viewed  from  the  railway  corridor  or  open 
stormwater drain; and 

(b) 

the hedging or climbing vines must be planted prior to the completion of 
the development using a minimum 300mm pot size; and 

(c) 

the planter bed area must incorporate a commercial grade, sub–surface, 
automatic, self–timed irrigation system; and 

(d) 

the  allotment  must  be  fenced  along  the  boundary  using  a  minimum  2 
metre high chain–wire fence; and 

(e) 

the  fence  provides  an  appropriate  access  point  to  maintain  the 
landscaping within the setback area; and 

(f)  where a car park adjoins the boundary, hedging or climbing vines must 
also  be  planted  along  the  sides  of  any  building  or  solid  fence  on  the 
allotment that face the railway corridor or open stormwater drain. 

If a setback for landscaping under this clause is not practical, other means to 
avoid  graffiti  must  be  employed  that  satisfies  Council’s  graffiti  minimisation 
strategy. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

60 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 11–GROUP HOMES 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To ensure the building form, building design and landscaping of group homes 

are compatible with the suburban character of the residential areas. 

(b)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  group  homes  provide 
appropriate amenity to residents in terms of access to sunlight and privacy. 

(c)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  group  homes  do  not 
adversely impact on the amenity of neighbouring properties in terms of visual 
bulk, access to sunlight and privacy. 

(d)  To  provide  adaptable group  homes  to  cater  for  the  needs  of  senior  residents 

and residents with disabilities. 

(e)  To minimise the visual impact of off–street parking on the streetscape. 

(f)  To require landscape as a key characteristic in the development. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Storey limit (not including basements) 

11.1  The storey limit for group homes in Zone R2 is 2 storeys.  In addition, group 
homes  in  the  foreshore  protection  area  (refer  to  map  in  Appendix  1)  must 
ensure the wall height does not exceed 7 metres and the building height does 
not exceed 9 metres. 

11.2  The storey limit for group homes in Zone R3 is 3 storeys. 

11.3  The  siting  of  group  homes  and  landscaping  works  must  be  compatible  with 
the  existing  slope  and  contours  of  the  allotment  and  any  adjoining  property.  
Council does not allow any development that involves elevated platforms on 
columns;  or  excessive  or  unnecessary  terracing,  rock  excavation,  retaining 
walls or reclamation. 

11.4  Any reconstituted ground level on the allotment must not exceed a height of 
600mm  above  the  ground  level  (existing)  of  an  adjoining  property  except 
where: 

(a)  group homes are required to be raised to achieve a suitable freeboard in 

accordance with Part B12 of this DCP; or 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

61 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b) 

the fill is contained within the ground floor perimeter of group homes to a 
height no greater than 1 metre above the ground level (existing) of the 
allotment. 

Setback restrictions 

11.5  The  erection  of  group  homes  is  prohibited  within  9  metres  of  an  existing 

animal boarding or training establishment. 

Setbacks in Zone R2 

11.6  The minimum setback for a building wall to the primary road frontage is: 

(a)  5.5 metres for the first storey (i.e. the ground floor); and 

(b)  6.5 metres for the second storey. 

11.7  The minimum setback to the secondary road frontage is: 

(a)  3 metres for a building wall; and 

(b)  5.5 metres for a garage or carport that is attached to the building wall. 

11.8  For the portion of the building wall that has a wall height less than or equal to 
7  metres,  the  minimum  setback  to  the  side  boundary  of  the  allotment  is  0.9 
metre. 

11.9  For  the  portion  of  the  building  wall  that  has  a  wall  height  greater  than  7 
metres,  the  minimum  setback  to  the  side  boundary  of  the  allotment  is  1.5 
metres. 

11.10  The  basement  level  must  not  project  beyond  the  ground  floor  perimeter  of 

group homes. 

Setbacks in Zone R3 

11.11  The  minimum  setback  for  a  building  wall  to  the  primary  road  frontage  is  6 

metres. 

11.12  The minimum setback for a building wall to the secondary road frontage is 6 

metres. 

11.13  For  a  single  or  2  storey  building,  the  minimum  setback  to  the  side  and  rear 

boundaries of the allotment is 0.6 multiplied by the wall height. 

11.14  For  a  building  with  3  or  more  storeys,  the minimum  setback  to the  side and 
rear boundaries of the allotment is 4.5 metres provided the average setback 
is 0.6 multiplied by the wall height. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

62 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

11.15  The minimum setback for a basement level to the side and rear boundaries of 

the allotment is 2 metres. 

11.16  The minimum setback for a driveway to the side and rear boundaries of the 

allotment is 1 metre. 

Private open space 

11.17  Group homes must provide: 

(a)  one area of at least 20m2 with a minimum dimension of 3 metres for the 

use of the lodgers; and 

(b) 

if  accommodation  is  provided  on  site  for  a  group  home  manager,  one 
area of at least 8m2 with a minimum dimension of 2.5 metres is provided 
adjacent to that accommodation. 

11.18  Development  must  locate  the  private  open  space  behind  the  front  building 
line.  This clause does not apply to any balconies where it is used to provide 
articulation to the street facade. 

Access to sunlight 

11.19  At least 70% of boarding rooms must receive a minimum 3 hours of sunlight 
between 8.00am  and 4.00pm  at  the mid–winter  solstice.    Council may  allow 
light wells and skylights to supplement this access to sunlight provided these 
building elements are not the primary source of sunlight to the living areas. 

11.20  Where the development provides for one or more communal living rooms, at 
least one of those rooms must receive a minimum of 3 hours direct sunlight 
between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter solstice. 

11.21  At least one living area of a dwelling on an adjoining allotment must receive a 
minimum 3 hours of sunlight between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter 
solstice.   Where  this  requirement  cannot  be  met,  the  development  must  not 
result  with  additional  overshadowing  on  the  affected  living  areas  of  the 
dwelling. 

11.22  A  minimum  50%  of  the  private  open  space required  for group  homes  and  a 
minimum  50%  of  the  private  open  space  of  a  dwelling  on  an  adjoining 
allotment  must  receive  at  least  3  hours  of  sunlight  between  9.00am  and 
5.00pm at the equinox.  Where this requirement cannot be met for a dwelling 
on  an  adjoining  allotment,  the  development  must  not  result  with  additional 
overshadowing on the affected private open space. 

11.23  Development  should  avoid  overshadowing  any  existing  solar  hot  water 
system,  photovoltaic  panel  or  other  solar  collector  on  the  allotment  and 
neighbouring properties. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

63 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Visual privacy 

11.24  Where development proposes a window that directly looks into the living area 

or bedroom window of an existing dwelling, the development must: 

(a)  offset the windows between dwellings to minimise overlooking; or 

(b)  provide the window with a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor 

level; or 

(c)  ensure the window cannot open and has obscure glazing to a minimum 

height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(d)  use another form of screening to the satisfaction of Council. 

11.25  Where  development  proposes  a  window  that  directly  looks  into  the  private 
open  space  of  an  existing  dwelling,  the  window  does  not  require  screening 
where: 

(a) 

the window is to a bedroom, bathroom, toilet, laundry, storage room, or 
other non–habitable room; or 

(b) 

the window has a minimum sill height of 1.5 metres above floor level; or 

(c) 

the  window  has  translucent  glazing  to  a  minimum  height  of  1.5  metres 
above floor level; or 

(d) 

the window is designed to prevent overlooking of more than 50% of the 
private open space of a lower–level or adjoining dwelling. 

11.26  Council may allow  group homes to have an upper floor side or rear balcony 
solely where the balcony is not accessible from a living area or hallway, and 
the balcony design: 

(a)  does not have an external staircase; and 

(b)  does not exceed a width of 1.5 metres throughout; and 

(c) 

incorporates  a  form  of  screening  to  the  satisfaction  of  Council  such  as 
partially recessing the balcony into the building. 

11.27  Council does not allow group homes to have roof–top balconies and the like. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

64 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Building design 

11.28  Group homes must satisfy each of the following: 

(a) 

if a group home has 5 or more boarding rooms, at least one communal 
living room will be provided; and 

(b) 

if each boarding room has a gross floor area (excluding any area used 
for the purposes of private kitchen or bathroom facilities) of at least: 

(i) 

12m2  in  the  case  of  a  boarding  room  intended  to  be  used  by  a 
single lodger, or 

(ii)  16m2 in any other case; and 

(c)  no boarding room will have a gross floor area (excluding any area used 
for  the  purposes  of  private  kitchen  or  bathroom  facilities)  of  more  than 
25m2; and 

(d)  no boarding room will be occupied by more than 2 adult lodgers; and 

(e)  adequate  bathroom  and  kitchen  facilities  will  be  available  within  the 

group home for the use of each lodger; and 

(f) 

if the group home has capacity to accommodate 20 or more lodgers, a 
boarding  room  or  on  site  dwelling  will  be  provided  for  a  group  home 
manager; and 

(g)  at least one parking space will be provided for a bicycle, and one will be 

provided for a motorcycle, for every 5 boarding rooms. 

11.29  The maximum roof pitch for group homes is 35 degrees. 

11.30  Council does not allow group homes to have attics. 

11.31  Development  for  the  purpose  of  group  homes  must  demolish  all  existing 

dwellings (not including any heritage items) on the allotment. 

11.32  Group  homes  with  10  or  more  boarding  rooms  must  provide  at  least  one 
adaptable  boarding  room  plus  an  adaptable  boarding  room  for  every  50 
boarding rooms in accordance with AS 4299–Adaptable Housing. 

11.33  Development  in  the  foreshore  protection  area  (refer  to  map  in  Appendix  1) 
must  use  non–reflective  materials  that  are  compatible  with  the  natural 
characteristics  and  colours  of  the  area  (such  as  olive  green,  grey  and  dark 
brown). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

65 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Building design (car parking) 

11.34  Development on land bounded by Birdwood Road, Bellevue Avenue and Rex 

Road in Georges Hall must: 

(a)  comply with the road pattern shown in Appendix 2; and 

(b)  ensure vehicle access from Balmoral Crescent to land at Nos. 107–113 
Rex Road in Georges Hall is provided for no more than 10 dwellings as 
shown in Appendix 3. 

11.35  The  design  and  siting  of  car  parking  structures  and  driveways  must  ensure 

vehicles can leave the allotment in a forward direction. 

11.36  Development  must  locate  the  car  parking  spaces  behind  the  front  building 

line. 

11.37  Council  must  ensure 

the  garage  architecturally 
development and does not dominate the street facade. 

integrates  with 

the 

Building design (waste storage areas) 

11.38  The minimum size for the waste storage area is listed in Appendix 7.  Council 
may allow the waste storage area to be located forward of the front building 
line  provided  it  is  setback  a  minimum  1.5  metres  from  the  primary  and 
secondary  frontages, and  the  setback area is  planted  with  native  vegetation 
(refer to Appendix 4 for a list of suitable species). 

Landscaping 

11.39  Development  must  retain  and  protect  any  significant  trees  on  the  allotment 
and  adjoining  allotments.    To  achieve  this  clause,  the  development  may 
require a design alteration or a reduction in the size of group homes. 

11.40  Development must landscape the following areas on the allotment by way of 
trees  and  shrubs  with  preference  given  to  native  vegetation  endemic  to  the 
City  of  Bankstown  (refer  to  Appendix  4  and  Appendix  5  for  a  list  of  suitable 
species): 

(a)  a  minimum  45%  of  the  area  between  the group  home  and  the  primary 

frontage; and 

(b)  a minimum 45% of the area between the group home and the secondary 

frontage; and 

(c)  plant  more  than  one  75  litre  tree  between  the  group  home  and  the 
primary  frontage  (refer  to  Appendix  5  for  a  list  of  suitable  trees  in  the 
City of Bankstown); or 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

66 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(i) 

(ii) 

if  the  allotment  adjoins  the  Hume  Highway  and  the  minimum 
setback  to  the  Hume  Highway  is  less  than  20  metres,  the 
development must plant a row of 75 litre trees at 5 metre intervals 
along  the  length  of  the  Hume  Highway  boundary  and  must  select 
the trees from the list in Appendix 6; or 

if  the  allotment  adjoins  the  Hume  Highway  and  the  minimum 
setback to the Hume Highway is 20 metres, the development must 
plant two rows of 75 litre trees at 5 metre intervals along the length 
of the Hume Highway boundary and must select the trees from the 
list in Appendix 6; and 

(d) 

for  development  in  the  foreshore  protection  area  (refer  to  map  in 
Appendix  1),  the  development  must  plant  native  trees  with  a  mature 
height greater than 12 metres adjacent to the waterbody. 

Security 

11.41  Where  the  allotment  shares  a  boundary  with  a  railway  corridor  or  an  open 
stormwater  drain,  any  building,  solid  fence  or  car  park  on  the  allotment 
should,  wherever  practical,  be  setback  a  minimum  1.5  metres  from  that 
boundary.  The setback distance must be: 

(a) 

treated  with  hedging  or  climbing  vines  to  screen  the  building,  solid 
fence,  or  car  park  when  viewed  from  the  railway  corridor  or  open 
stormwater drain; and 

(b) 

the hedging or climbing vines must be planted prior to the completion of 
the development using a minimum 300mm pot size; and 

(c) 

the planter bed area must incorporate a commercial grade, sub–surface, 
automatic, self–timed irrigation system; and 

(d) 

the  allotment  must  be  fenced  along  the  boundary  using  a  minimum  2 
metre high chain–wire fence; and 

(e) 

the  fence  provides  an  appropriate  access  point  to  maintain  the 
landscaping within the setback area; and 

(f)  where a car park adjoins the boundary, hedging or climbing vines must 
also  be  planted  along  the  sides  of  any  building  or  solid  fence  on  the 
allotment that face the railway corridor or open stormwater drain. 

If a setback for landscaping under this clause is not practical, other means to 
avoid  graffiti  must  be  employed  that  satisfies  Council’s  graffiti  minimisation 
strategy. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

67 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 12–HOUSING ESTATES 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  ensure  the  subdivision  of  land  provides  adequate  space  for  dwellings, 

landscaping, open space and access. 

(b)  To ensure the subdivision of land provides appropriate amenity to residents. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Subdivision 

12.1 

In  assessing  proposals  for  residential  subdivisions,  Council  places  major 
emphasis on the ease with which future dwellings with good solar access can 
be  erected  on  the  proposed  lots.    In  general,  this  condition  is  best  fulfilled 
when the side boundaries of the majority of the lots are on or near a north–
south axis; however, there may be other solutions.  It is important to consider 
the subdivision beyond the subdivision stage and strive for a future residential 
area in which the great majority of dwellings can achieve good solar access. 

12.2  The standard width for public roads is 17 metres.  This comprises a 10 metre 
wide  carriageway  and  a  3.5  metre  wide  footpath  on  each  side  of  the 
carriageway. 

Setback for No. 105 Wattle Street in Punchbowl 

12.3  The  minimum  building  setback  to  the  northern  boundary  of  Nos.  91–103 
Wattle  Street  in  Punchbowl  is  10  metres,  with  preference  given  to  deep  soil 
planting within the setback. 

Security 

12.4  Where  the  site  shares  a  boundary  with  a  railway  corridor  or  an  open 
stormwater  drain,  any  building,  solid  fence  or  car  park  on  the  site  should, 
wherever  practical,  be  setback  a  minimum  1.5  metres  from  that  boundary.  
The setback distance must be: 

(a) 

treated  with  hedging  or  climbing  vines  to  screen  the  building,  solid 
fence,  or  car  park  when  viewed  from  the  railway  corridor  or  open 
stormwater drain; and 

(b) 

the hedging or climbing vines must be planted prior to the completion of 
the development using a minimum 300mm pot size; and 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

68 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(c) 

the planter bed area must incorporate a commercial grade, sub–surface, 
automatic, self–timed irrigation system; and 

(d) 

the  site  must  be  fenced  along  the  boundary  using  a  minimum  2  metre 
high chain–wire fence; and 

(e) 

the  fence  provides  an  appropriate  access  point  to  maintain  the 
landscaping within the setback area; and 

(f)  where a car park adjoins the boundary, hedging or climbing vines must 
also be planted along the sides of any building or solid fence on the site 
that face the railway corridor or open stormwater drain. 

If a setback for landscaping under this clause is not practical, other means to 
avoid  graffiti  must  be  employed  that  satisfies  Council’s  graffiti  minimisation 
strategy. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

69 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 13–ANCILLARY DEVELOPMENT (OUTBUILDINGS) 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  ensure  outbuildings  are  established  in  conjunction  with  the  principal 

dwelling on the same allotment. 

(b)  To ensure the building form and building design of outbuildings are compatible 

with the prevailing suburban character of the residential areas. 

(c)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  outbuildings  do  not 
adversely impact on the amenity of neighbouring properties in terms of visual 
bulk, access to sunlight and privacy. 

(d)  To  ensure  the  building  form  of  outbuildings  in  the  foreshore  protection  area 
preserves  the  existing  topography,  land  and  rock  formations,  and  the  unique 
ecology of natural bushland and mangrove areas. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Site cover 

13.1  The sum of the gross floor area of all the outbuildings on the allotment must 

not exceed 60m2. 

13.2  Outbuildings must not result in the principal dwelling on the allotment having 

less than the required landscaped area and private open space. 

Height 

13.3  The storey limit for outbuildings is single storey.  An attic or basement is not 

permitted in outbuildings. 

13.4  The maximum building height for outbuildings is 4.8 metres and the maximum 

wall height for outbuildings is 3 metres. 

13.5  The siting of outbuildings and landscaping works must be compatible with the 
existing  slope  and  contours  of  the  allotment  and  any  adjoining  property.  
Council does not allow any development that involves elevated platforms on 
columns;  or  excessive  or  unnecessary  terracing,  rock  excavation,  retaining 
walls or reclamation. 

13.6  Any reconstituted ground level on the allotment must not exceed a height of 
600mm  above  the  ground  level  (existing)  of  an  adjoining  property  except 
where: 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

70 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(a) 

the outbuilding is required to be raised to achieve a suitable freeboard in 
accordance with Part B12 of this DCP; or 

(b) 

the fill is contained within the ground floor perimeter of the outbuilding to 
a height no greater than 1 metre above the ground level (existing) of the 
allotment. 

Setbacks to the primary and secondary road frontages 

13.7  Outbuildings must locate behind the front building line. 

Setbacks to the side and rear boundaries 

13.8  The minimum setback to the side and rear boundaries of the allotment is: 

(a)  zero setback for carports or masonry walls that do not contain windows, 
eaves and gutters provided the structures comply with the Building Code 
of Australia; or 

(b)  0.45 metre for non–masonry walls that do not contain a windows, eaves 

and gutters; or 

(c)  0.9 metre for walls with windows, or outbuildings that are or are intended 

to be used for recreation purposes. 

Building design 

13.9  Outbuildings  must  not  function  as  self–contained  dwellings,  and  must  not 

function or be adapted to function for industrial purposes. 

13.10  The design of outbuildings is limited to the following facilities: 

(a)  a half bowl sink; and 

(b)  a maximum cupboard length of 1.8 metres; and 

(c)  a toilet and shower with external access only; and 

(d)  no cooking facilities or excessive number of large windows. 

13.11  The maximum roof pitch for outbuildings is 25 degrees. 

13.12  Council does not allow outbuildings to have roof–top balconies and the like. 

Landscaping 

13.13  Development  must  retain  and  protect  any  significant  trees  on  the  allotment 
and  adjoining  allotments.    To  achieve  this  clause,  the  development  may 
require a design alteration or a reduction in the size of the outbuilding. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

71 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 14–ANCILLARY DEVELOPMENT (OUTDOOR STRUCTURES) 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To ensure  outdoor  structures  are  established  in  conjunction  with  the  principal 

dwelling on the same allotment.  

(b)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  outdoor  structures  are 
compatible with the prevailing suburban character of the residential areas. 

(c)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  outdoor  structures  do  not 
adversely impact on the amenity of neighbouring properties in terms of visual 
bulk and public health. 

(d)  To  ensure  the  building  form  of  outdoor  structures  in  the  foreshore  protection 
area  preserves  the  existing  topography,  land  and  rock  formations,  and  the 
unique ecology of natural bushland and mangrove areas. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Front fences 

14.1  The maximum fence height for a front fence is 1.8 metres. 

14.2  The  external  appearance  of  a  front  fence  along  the  front  boundary  of  an 

allotment or facing a classified road must ensure: 

(a) 

(b) 

the  section  of  the  front  fence  that  comprises  solid  construction  (not 
including solid piers) must not exceed a fence height of 1 metre above 
natural ground level; and 

the  remaining  height  of  the  front  fence  must  comprise  open  style 
construction such as spaced timber pickets or wrought iron that enhance 
and unify the building design. 

Despite this clause, the solid construction of a fence behind the front building 
line  of  dwelling  houses  and  dual  occupancies  on  corner  allotments  may 
achieve a fence height up to 1.8 metres. 

14.3  Council  does  not  allow  the  following  types  of  front  fences  along  a  classified 

road: 

(a)  chain wire, metal sheeting, brushwood, and electric fences; and 

(b)  noise attenuation walls. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

72 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

14.4  Where  the  ground  level  (existing)  of  the  allotment  (measured  at  the  primary 
and secondary frontages) rises more than 600mm above the public footway, 
the front fence on the allotment must: 

(a)  not  exceed  a  fence  height  of  1  metre  if  the  fence  is  built  with  a  zero 

setback to the primary and secondary road frontages; or 

(b)  may reach a fence height above 1 metre provided the fence is setback a 
minimum 1.5 metres from the primary and secondary road frontages. 

Dividing fences 

14.5  Dividing fences require development consent where the average fence height 

exceeds 1.8 metres. 

Retaining walls 

14.6  Retaining walls are not permitted along the riverbank or where the foreshore 
is  in  its  natural  state  except  in  exceptional  circumstances  as  determined  by 
Council. 

Boatsheds 

14.7  Boatsheds  must  have  a  direct  relationship  with  the  water  with  the  openings 

and access facing the water. 

14.8  Boatsheds must solely be used for the storage and/or maintenance of boats.  
Boatsheds intended or used for any other purpose or which include cooking 
facilities or habitable rooms are not permitted. 

14.9  The  maximum  storey  limit  for  boatsheds  is  single  storey.    An  attic  and 

basement is not permitted. 

14.10  The perimeter of boatsheds must not exceed a length of 8 metres and a width 

of 4 metres. 

14.11  The  external  materials  of  boatsheds  must  consist  of  solid  materials  such  as 
timber.    Glass  elevations  or  excessive  windows  and  openings  are  not 
permitted. 

Swimming pools and spas 

14.12  Swimming pools and spas must locate behind the front building line. 

14.13  The  minimum  setback  between  the  waterline  of  swimming  pools  /  spas  and 

the allotment boundary is 1 metre. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

73 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

14.14  Where  Council  allows  swimming  pools  /  spas  within  30  metres  of  the  high 

water mark of the Georges River and its tributaries: 

(a) 

the  maximum  height  of  the  swimming  pool  /  spa  is  300mm  measured 
above the ground level (existing); and 

(b) 

the swimming pool / spa fence must be an open style fence. 

Animal boarding or training establishments 

14.15  The  number  of  horses  or  animal  boarding  or  training  establishments 
permitted to be kept on a site must be determined by the area of the site and 
must not exceed a rate of 1 horse per 30m2 of the area of the site. 

14.16  Animal  boarding  or  training  establishments,  horse  yard  areas  and  manure 
bins must not be constructed, nor horses kept nearer than 9 metres from any 
existing or potential dwelling, school, industry, place of public worship or any 
commercial  premises  used  for  the  manufacture,  preparation  or  storage  of 
food. 

14.17  Horse wash areas, horse roll areas and exercise pools must not locate within 

9 metres of any existing dwelling or likely dwelling envelope. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

74 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 15–HOME BUSINESSES 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  allow  residents  to  carry  out  home  businesses  within  a  limited  area  of 

dwellings and outbuildings. 

(b)  To ensure home businesses have a minimal impact on the amenity of adjoining 

properties. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

General restrictions on development 

15.1  Council  prohibits  the  registration  of  home  businesses  as  factories  or  similar 

uses under the requirements of WorkCover NSW. 

Floor area 

15.2  Home  businesses  may  occupy  up  to  30m2  of  gross  floor  area  in  an 
outbuilding  provided  the  home  business  does  not  reduce  the  required  off–
street parking spaces for the dwelling. 

15.3  Home  businesses  may  occupy  up  to  30m2  of  gross  floor  area  in  a  dwelling 

provided the home business is restricted to a single room. 

Amenity 

15.4  Council must consider the following matters to ensure home businesses have 

a minimal impact on the amenity of adjoining properties: 

(a) 

the likely number of vehicle, delivery, and visitor movements; 

(b) 

the size of delivery vehicles associated with the home business; 

(c) 

the siting of loading activities behind the front building line; 

(d) 

the type of equipment or machinery to be used by the home business; 

(e) 

the  need  for  an  acoustic  report  where  the  home  business  is  likely  to 
generate significant noise levels; 

(f) 

the need to control any odours or emissions; and 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

75 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(g)  whether the hours of operation are within 8.00am to 6.00pm Monday to 

Saturday and not at any time on a Sunday or public holiday. 

Building design (signage) 

15.5  Business identification signs must comply with the following controls: 

(a)  Council permits only one sign per allotment; 

(b) 

the total sign area must not exceed 1.2 metre x 0.6 metre; 

(c) 

the sign is to be located on or behind the building line; 

(d) 

the sign is to be located at or below the awning level.  Where there is no 
awning to the building, the sign is solely permitted below the window sill 
of the second storey windows; 

(e) 

if the sign is painted or attached to a building, the sign must not screen 
windows and other significant architectural features of the building; 

(f) 

the sign is to be non–illuminated; and 

(g)  Council  does  not  permit  flashing  signs,  flashing  lights,  signs  which 
incorporate  devices  which  change  colour,  signs  where  movement  can 
be  recognised  by  a  passing  motorist,  signs  that  are  not  permanently 
fixed to the site, and signs made of canvas, calico or the like.  

15.6  Corporate  colours,  logos  and  other  graphics  must  achieve  a  high  degree  of 
compatibility  with  the  architecture,  materials,  finishes  and  colours  of  the 
building and the streetscape. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

76 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION  16–NEIGHBOURHOOD  SHOPS  AND  LIVE–WORK  ENTERPRISES  IN 
ZONES R3 AND R4 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  ensure  neighbourhood  shops  and  live–work  enterprises  enable  the  co–

location of appropriate business and residential uses. 

(b)  To  ensure  neighbourhood  shops  and  live–work  enterprises  make  a  positive 

contribution to the visual character of the streetscape. 

(c)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  function  of  neighbourhood  shops  and  live–
work enterprises are compatible with the prevailing suburban character of the 
residential areas. 

(d)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  function  of  neighbourhood  shops  and  live–
work enterprises do not adversely impact on the amenity of adjoining dwellings 
and neighbouring properties. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Building design (neighbourhood shops) 

16.1  A maximum one neighbourhood shop is permitted on an allotment. 

16.2  The neighbourhood shop must locate on the ground floor. 

16.3  A  stand–alone  neighbourhood  shop  must  comply  with  the  storey  limit  and 
setback controls applicable to attached dwellings in Zone R3 or residential flat 
buildings in Zone R4. 

Building design (live–work enterprises) 

16.4  A  maximum  one  dwelling  may  be  used  for  the  purposes  of  live–work 
enterprise  on  an  allotment.    The  live–work  enterprise  component  of  the 
dwelling must locate on the ground floor. 

16.5  The predominant use of the dwelling must be for residential purposes. 

16.6  The  residential  component  of  the  dwelling  must  locate  above  or  behind  the 

live–work enterprise floor area. 

16.7  The  residential  and  live–work  enterprise  components  of  a  dwelling  must  not 

be subdivided as part of a strata plan or community title scheme. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

77 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

16.8  The  live–work  enterprise  component  must  connect  with  the  residential 
component of a dwelling via internal stairs so that the residential component 
is not sub–let but is used by the tenants/owners of the live–work enterprise. 

16.9  The  residential  component  of  the  dwelling  must  comply  with  Part  B1  of  this 
DCP to provide acceptable levels of amenity and address access to sunlight 
and visual privacy. 

Building design (general) 

16.10  Development must achieve a high standard of architectural design and visual 

quality including: 

(a) 

facade modulation; 

(b)  high quality materials including variation in texture and colour; 

(c) 

landscaping within the front boundary setback; and 

(d)  vehicle  access,  parking  and  manoeuvring  not  being  visually  dominant 

when viewed from the street. 

16.11  Development  must  provide  an  active  street  frontage  and  may  include  large, 
transparent  windows  on  the  street  elevation  that  enable  the  perception  of 
indoor  activity  to  be  obtained  from  the  public  domain.    Council  does  not 
permit solid roller doors and shutters. 

Building design (signage) 

16.12  Business identification signs must comply with the following controls: 

(a)  Council permits only one sign per allotment; 

(b) 

the total sign area must not exceed 1.2 metre x 0.6 metre; 

(c) 

the sign is to be located on or behind the building line; 

(d) 

the sign is to be located at or below the awning level.  Where there is no 
awning to the building, the sign is solely permitted below the window sill 
of the second storey windows; 

(e) 

if the sign is painted or attached to a building, the sign must not screen 
windows and other significant architectural features of the building; 

(f) 

the sign is to be non–illuminated; and 

(g)  Council  does  not  permit  flashing  signs,  flashing  lights,  signs  which 
incorporate  devices  which  change  colour,  signs  where  movement  can 
be  recognised  by  a  passing  motorist,  signs  that  are  not  permanently 
fixed to the site, and signs made of canvas, calico or the like.  

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

78 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

16.13  Corporate  colours,  logos  and  other  graphics  must  achieve  a  high  degree  of 
compatibility  with  the  architecture,  materials,  finishes  and  colours  of  the 
building and the streetscape. 

Amenity 

16.14  Council  must  consider  the  following  matters  to  ensure  development  for  the 
purposes  of  neighbourhood  shops  and  live–work  enterprises  has  a  minimal 
impact on the amenity of adjoining dwellings and neighbouring properties: 

(a) 

the likely number of vehicle, delivery and visitor movements; 

(b) 

the size of delivery vehicles associated with the proposed development; 

(c)  whether any goods, plant, equipment and other material used in carrying 
out the proposed development will be stored or suitably screened from 
residential development; 

(d)  whether  noise  generation  from  fixed  sources  or  motor  vehicles 
associated  with  the  proposed  development  will  be  effectively  insulated 
or otherwise minimised; and 

(e)  whether  the  proposed  development  will  otherwise  cause  nuisance  to 
residents,  by  way  of  hours  of  operation,  traffic  movement,  parking, 
headlight glare, security lighting, vibration, fumes, gases, smoke, dust or 
odours, or the like. 

16.15  All  loading  and  unloading  is  to  be  undertaken  on–site.    The  loading  and 

unloading areas should locate behind the front building line. 

16.16  Council  may  limit  the  hours  of  operation  of  neighbourhood  shops  and  live–
work enterprises from 7.00am to 7.00pm Monday to Saturday and 9.00am to 
6.00pm on a Sunday and not at any time on a public holiday. 

Waste storage areas 

16.17  Neighbourhood  shops  must  provide  waste  storage  areas  inside  every  food 
premises  and  inside  any  shop  that  is  capable  of  accommodating  a  food 
premises. 

16.18  Neighbourhood shops must locate waste storage areas inside the building or 

adjacent to a lane where it is: 

(a)  convenient  and  safe  for  residents,  tenants,  and  waste  collection  trucks 

to access the waste storage area; and 

(b) 

the location and floor level are to the satisfaction of Council. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

79 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

16.19  The  minimum  size  for  waste  storage  areas  in  neighbourhood  shops  is  a 

minimum length of 3 metres and a minimum width of 3 metres. 

16.20  With any waste storage area: 

(a) 

the wall height must ensure people can walk into the waste storage area 
and the lid of a waste bin can be opened with ease; and 

(b)  Council may increase the minimum dimensions for a commercial waste 
storage  area  depending  on  the  likely  use  of  the  business  and  retail 
premises and the frequency of collection services. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

80 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 17–HEALTH CONSULTING ROOMS 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have health consulting rooms that provide services to meet the day to day 

needs of residents. 

(b)  To  have  health  consulting  rooms  that  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing 

suburban character and amenity of the residential areas. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Parking 

17.1  Development  must  provide  a  minimum  3  off–street  car  spaces  for  the 
purposes of the health consulting rooms and 2 off–street parking spaces for 
the  dwelling  house.    At  least  one  of  the  spaces  must  be  suitable  for  people 
with disabilities. 

All  patient  car  parking  must  locate  forward  of  the  dwelling  house/health 
consulting  rooms,  whilst  the  resident  or  practitioner’s  spaces  may  locate  to 
the rear or side of the development. 

17.2  Development may provide the 2 off–street car spaces for the dwelling house 

in a stacked or tandem manner behind the front building line. 

The  remaining  3  off–street  car  spaces  for  the  purposes  of  the  health 
consulting rooms must be directly accessible and available for use by patients 
at  all  times,  therefore  stacked  parking  in  this  regard  is  not  acceptable.  
Access to patient parking should not be via any carport, drive–through garage 
or similar structure. 

Acoustic privacy 

17.3  Health consulting rooms must operate within the hours of 7.00am to 7.00pm 
Monday to Saturday and 9.00am to 6.00pm on a Sunday and not at any time 
on a public holiday. 

17.4  Use of the consulting rooms outside the above hours will be permitted only in 

emergencies. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

81 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Business identification signs 

17.5  Business identification signs must comply with the following controls: 

(a)  Council permits only one sign per allotment; 

(b) 

the total sign area must not exceed 0.65 metre x 0.65 metre; 

(c)  sign is to be affixed either to the building or front fence; 

(d) 

if the sign is painted or attached to a building, the sign must not screen 
windows and other significant architectural features of the building; 

(e) 

the sign is to be non–illuminated; 

(f)  Council  does  not  permit  flashing  signs,  flashing  lights,  signs  which 
incorporate  devices  which  change  colour,  signs  where  movement  can 
be  recognised  by  a  passing  motorist,  signs  that  are  not  permanently 
fixed to the site, and signs made of canvas, calico or the like; and  

(g)  Council may allow standard doctors’ and dentists’ signs. 

Waste storage areas 

17.6  The design, location and screening of the waste storage areas must be to the 

satisfaction of Council. 

17.7  Health consulting rooms must dispose medical wastes in accordance with the 

NSW Ministry of Health requirements. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

82 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1–Foreshore Protection Area 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

83 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

84 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

85 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

86 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

87 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

88 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

89 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

90 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 2–Adopted road pattern for certain land in Georges Hall 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

91 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix  3–Restriction  of  access  from  Balmoral  Crescent  to  Rex  Road  in 
Georges Hall 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

92 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 4–Suggested species for native landscaping purposes 

Local Indigenous Species 
Acacia falcata 
Acacia longifolia 
Acacia suaveolens 
Acacia terminalis 
Acacia ulicifolia 
Billardiera scandens 
Breynia oblongifolia 
Bursaria spinosa 
Callistemon linearis 
Callistemon salignus 
Carex appressa 
Clematis aristata 
Clematis glycinoides 
Clerodendrum tomentosum 
Correa reflexa 
Crinum pedunculatum 
Danthonia tenuior 
Dianella caerulea 
Dianella longifolia 
Dianella revoluta 
Dichelachne micrantha 
Dodonaea triquetra 
Echinopogon caespitosus 
Einadia hastata 
Eragrostis brownii 
Eriostemon myoporoides 
Eustrephus latifolius 
Gonocarpus teucrioides 
Goodenia bellidifolia 
Grevillea sericea 
Hakea sericea 
Hardenbergia violacea 
Hibbertia aspera 
Imperata cylindrica 
Indigofera australis 
Juncus usitatus 
Kennedia rubicunda 
Kunzea ambigua 
Leptospermum polygalifolium 
Leptospermum trinervium 
Lomandra longifolia 
Melaleuca nodosa 
Melaleuca thymifolia 
Microlaena stipoides 
Oplismenus imbecilis 
Ozothamnus diosmifolius 
Pandorea pandorana 
Persicaria decipiens 
Persicaria lapathifolia 
Petrophile pulchella 
Pimelea linifolia 
Plectranthus parviflorus 
Polyscias sambucifolia 
Pomax umbellata 
Pultenaea villosa 
Rubus parviflorus 
Trighlochin striatum 
Triglochin procerum 
Viola hederacea 

Common Name 
Sickle Wattle 
Sydney Golden Wattle 
Sweet Scented Wattle 
Sunshine Wattle 
Prickly Moses 
Climbing Apple Berry 
Coffee Brush 
Blackthorn 
Narrow–leaf Bottlebrush 
Willow Bottlebrush 
Tussock Sedge 
Old Man's Beard 
Traveller's Joy 
Hairy Clerodendrum 
Common Correa 
Swamp Lily 
Wallaby Grass 
Paroo Lily 
Pale Flax Lily 
Black–anther Flax Lily 
Short–hair Plume Grass 
Common Hop Bush 
Hedgehog Grass 
Saloop Saltbush 
Brown's Lovegrass 
Long–leaf Wax Flower 
Wombat Berry 
Raspwort 
Rocket Goodenia 
Pink Spider Flower 
Silky Hakea 
Purple Twining Pea 
Rough Guinea–flower 
Blady Grass 
Native Indigo 
Tussock Rush 
Dusty Coral Pea 
Tick Bush 
Yellow Tea Tree 
Flaky–barked Tea Tree 
Spiny–headed Mat–rush 
Ball Honey Myrtle 
Claw Honey Myrtle 
Weeping Meadow Grass 
Basket Grass 
White Dogwood 
Wonga Wonga Vine 
Slender Knotweed 
Pale Knotweed 
Conesticks 
Slender Rice Flower 
Cockspur Flower 
Elderberry Panax 
Pomax 
Bronze Bush Pea 
Native Raspberry 
Streaked Arrowgrass 
Water Ribbons 
Native Violet 

Preferred Soil 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay/Sand 
Clay 
Clay/Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Alluvial 
Sand 
Alluvial 
Sand 
Clay 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay/Sand 
Sand 
Clay/Sand 
Sand/Shale 
Sand 
Sand/Shale 
Alluvial 
Clay 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay/Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay 
Alluvial 
Alluvial 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay 
Alluvial 
Alluvial 
Sand 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

93 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 5–Suggested trees for native landscaping purposes 

Australian Native Species 
Acacia binervia 
Acmena smithii 
Angophora costata 
Backhousia citriodora 
Backhousia floribunda 
Banksia serrata 
Brachychiton populneum 
Callistemon citrinus 
Callistemon pinifolius 
Callistemon viminalis 
Ceratapetalum gummiferum 
Elaeocarpus reticulatus 
Eucalyptus eugenioides 
Eucalyptus fibrosa 
Eucalyptus gummifera 
Eucalyptus haemastoma 
Eucalyptus longifolia 
Eucalyptus moluccana 
Eucalyptus resinifera  
Eucalyptus sideroxylon 
Eucalyptus tereticornis 
Flindersia australis 
Glochidion ferdinandii 
Harpullia pendula 
Hymenosporum flavum 
Leptospermum petersonii 
Lophostemon conferta 
Melaleuca decora 
Melaleuca linariifolia 
Pittosporum revolutum 

Preferred Soil 
Sand/Clay* 

Sand* 

Sand* 
Clay* 
Clay* 
Sand* 
Sand* 
Clay* 
Clay* 
Sand/Clay* 
Clay* 
Clay* 

Sand/Clay* 

Clay* 
Clay* 

Common Name 
Myall Wattle 
Lilli Pilli 
Smooth Barked Apple 
Lemon Scented Myrtle 
Flowering Myrtle 
Old Man Banksia 
Kurrajong 
Crimson Bottlebrush 
Green Bottlebrush 
Weeping Bottlebrush 
Christmas Bush 
Blueberry Ash 
Thin Leaf Stringybark 
Broad Leaf Ironbark 
Red bloodwood 
Scribbly Gum 
Woollybutt 
Grey Box 
Red Mahogany 
Mugga Ironbark 
Forest Redgum 
Australian Teak/ Crows Ash 
Cheese Tree 
Tulipwood 
Native Frangipani 
Lemon Scented Tea Tree 
Brushbox 
White Feather Honey Myrtle 
Narrow Leaf Paperbark 
Yellow/ Rough Fruit 
Pittosporum 
Diamond Leaf Pittosporum 
Illawarra Plum 
Queensland Firewheel Tree 
Turpentine 
Small Leaf Lilli Pilli 
Brush Cherry 
Blue Lilli Pilli 
Water Gum 
Weeping Lilli Pilli 

Pittosporum rhombifolium 
Podocarpus elatus 
Stenocarpus sinuatus 
Syncarpia glomulifera 
Syzygium luehmannii 
Syzygium paniculatum 
Syzygium oleosum 
Tristaniopsis laurina 
Waterhousia floribunda 
* Asterix denotes plant species native to Bankstown area.  NOTE: Plants listed will benefit from improved 
garden soil conditions, irrigation and ongoing maintenance.  The above plant list is not exhaustive, 
additional species may be considered.  Planting to be determined with concession to site conditions, 
aspect, exposure, drainage and surrounding vegetation. 

Sand/Clay* 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

94 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 6–Suitable trees on the Hume Highway 

Australian Native Species 

Common Name 

Preferred Soil 

sand / clay 
Improved soil conditions 
composted garden soil 

s* 

s* 

Acmena smithii 
Angophora costata 
Brachychiton acerifolius 
Cupaniopsis anarchoides 
Elaeocarpus reticulatus 
Eucalyptus beaureana 
Eucalyptus haemastoma 
Eucalyptus maculata 
Eucalyptus moluccana 
Flindersia australis 
Harpullia pendula 
Leptospermum petersonii 
Lophostemon conferta 
Stenocarpus sinuatus 
Syncarpia glomulifera 
Syzygium luehmannii 
Tristaniopsis laurina 
* Asterix denotes plant species native to Bankstown area.  NOTE: Plants listed will benefit from improved 
garden soil conditions, irrigation and ongoing maintenance.  The above plant list is not exhaustive, 
additional species may be considered.  Planting to be determined with concession to site conditions, 
aspect, exposure, drainage and surrounding vegetation. 

Lilli Pilli 
Smooth Barked Apple 
Illawarra Flame Tree 
Tuckeroo 
Blueberry Ash 
Blue Box 
Scribbly Gum 
Spotted Gum 
Grey Box 
Australian Teak/ Crows Ash 
Tulipwood 
Lemon Scented Tea Tree 
Brushbox 
Queensland Firewheel Tree 
Turpentine 
Small Leaf Lilli Pilli 
Water Gum 

s/c* 

s/c* 

c* 

Non–Native Species 

Common Name 

Preferred Soil– 
Improved Organic 

Gordonia axillaris 
Jacaranda mimosaefolia 
Koelreutaria paniculata 
Lagerstroemia indica 
Liriodendron tulipifera 
Magnolia grandiflora 
Platanus cuniata 
Platanus x hybrida 
Pyrus calleryana 
Pyrus ussuriensis 
Sapium sebiferum 
Ulmus parvifolia 
Zelkova serrata 

Gordonia 
Jacaranda 
Pride Of China 
Crepe Myrtle 
Tulip Tree 
Bull Bay Magnolia 
Cut–Leaf Plane 
London Plane 
Callery Pear 
Manchurian Pear 
Chinese Tallowood 
Chinese Elm 
Japanese Elm, Keyaki 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

95 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Illustration:  Typical  cross–section  of  setback  with  single  row  of  trees  along  the 
Remembrance Driveway landscape corridor.  This setback relates to dwelling houses, dual 
occupancies, attached dwellings, multi dwelling housing and boarding houses. 

Illustration:  Typical  cross–section  of  setback  with 
the 
Remembrance  Driveway  landscape  corridor.    This  setback  relates  to  residential  flat 
buildings and landscape buffer zones. 

two  rows  of 

trees  along 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

96 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 7–Waste storage areas 

(a)  Where  development  contains  4  or  less  dwellings,  the  minimum  requirements 

for the waste storage areas are: 

Number of 
dwellings 

1 
2 
3 to 4 

Number of 
waste bins 
(120 litre) 
1 per dwelling 
1 per dwelling 
1 per dwelling 

Number of 
recycling bins 
(240 litre) 
1 per dwelling 
1 per dwelling 
1 per dwelling 

Size of recycling waste storage area 

storage space as part of dwelling 
storage space as part of dwelling 
storage space as part of dwelling 

(b)  Where development contains 5 or more dwellings, the minimum requirements 

for the waste storage areas are: 

Number of 
dwellings 

5 to 9 

10 to 18 

19 to 27 

28 to 36 

Number of 
bulk waste 
bins 
1 per dwelling 
or 
660 litres 
or 
1100 litres 
(as determined 
by Council) 
2  

3 

4 

37 or more 

special 
requirements 

Number of 
recycling bins 
(240 litre) 
1 recycling bin 
per 4 dwellings 

Size of waste storage area 

Minimum length and width (m) 
3.0/3.0 + 1m2 per recycling bin 

1 recycling bin 
per 5 dwellings 
1 recycling bin 
per 6 dwellings 
1 recycling bin 
per 7 dwellings 
special 
requirements 

5.0/3.0 + 1m2 per recycling bin 

5.0/4.5 + 1m2 per recycling bin 

5.0/4.5 + 1m2 per recycling bin 

special requirements 

(c)  With any waste storage area, the wall height must ensure people can walk into 
the waste storage area and the lid of a waste bin can be opened with ease. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B1 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

97 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown 
Development 
Control 
Plan 2015 

PART B2 

COMMERCIAL 

CENTRES   

 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

CONTENTS 

Section 1 

Introduction   

Section 2 

Neighbourhood Centres 

Section 3 

Village and Small Village Centres  

Section 4 

Enterprise Corridors  

Section 5 

Building Design 

Section 6 

Business Development Centres and Business Parks 

Section 7 

Amusement Centres, Internet Cafes and  
Restricted Premises 

Section 8 

Home Businesses 

Section 9 

Ancillary Development 

3 

5 

9 

13 

15 

25 

29 

32 

34 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 1–INTRODUCTION 

Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015 is Council's principal planning document 
to  regulate  effective  and  orderly  development  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.    The  LEP 
provides  objectives,  zones  and  development  standards  such  as  lot  sizes  and  floor 
space ratios. 

Part  B2  of  Bankstown  Development  Control  Plan  2015  supplements  the  LEP  by 
providing additional objectives and development controls to enhance the function and 
appearance of centres, corridors and business parks in the City of Bankstown.  The 
development controls include storey limits, setbacks and building design. 

Part B2 generally applies to land within the business zones in the City of Bankstown 
under the provisions of Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015. 

Applicants must note: 

(a)  Certain  development  may  need  to  comply  with  Parts  A1  to  A3  of  this  DCP.  
These parts provide more detailed development controls for centres, corridors 
and key development sites in the business zones.  The development controls 
include storey limits, setbacks, landscape buffer zones and access.  If applicable 
to a development application, the development controls of Parts A1 to A3 will 
prevail if there is an inconsistency with any development controls in Part B2. 

(b)  Council  applies  the  design  quality  principles  of  State  Environmental  Planning 
Policy  No  65–Design  Quality  of  Residential  Apartment  Development  and  the 
Apartment Design Guide to residential flat buildings, shop top housing, serviced 
apartments,  boarding  houses  and  mixed  use  development  (containing 
dwellings).  This includes buildings that are two storeys or less, or contain less 
than four dwellings. 

(c)  A building envelope is not a building, but a three dimensional shape that may 
determine the bulk and siting of a building.  After allowing for building articulation, 
the achievable floor space of a development is likely to be less than the building 
envelope. 

Desired character objectives 

(a)  To have village centres and small village centres that strengthen the mix of uses 
around transport hubs to support the needs of people who live in, work in and 
visit the local area.  The built form is generally a mix of retail and commercial 
activities on the ground and first floors, and medium density living above.  The 
desired character is to also encourage employment opportunities in accessible 
locations,  maximise  public  transport  patronage  and  encourage  walking  and 
cycling. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b)  To  have  neighbourhood  centres  that  provide  a  range  of  small  scale  retail, 
business and community uses that serve the needs of people who live or work 
in the surrounding neighbourhood.  The built form is generally compatible with 
the  prevailing  suburban  character  and  amenity  of  the  surrounding  residential 
area. 

(c)  To have the Condell Park and Georges Hall Neighbourhood Centres continue to 
function  as  small  shopping  precincts  servicing  the  day–to–day  needs  of 
residents, a relaxing place where residents can catch up with neighbours and 
have a chat over coffee.  The built form of the Condell Park and Georges Hall 
Neighbourhood  Centres  (2  storeys  plus  attic)  will  maintain  the  low  density 
neighbourhood character of the surrounding residential area. 

(d)  To  have  enterprise  corridors  where  commercial  development  is  encouraged 
along main roads.  Retail activity needs to be limited to ensure that enterprise 
corridors do not detract from the activity centre hierarchy that has been identified 
or planned.  Opportunities for urban consolidation along busy roads are to be 
pursued.    Some  residential  accommodation  uses  may  be  included  as  part  of 
mixed use development, if considered appropriate. 

(e)  To  have  business  development  centres  that  provide  a  range  of  businesses, 
warehouses  and  bulky  goods  retail  uses  (that  require  a  large  floor  area)  in 
locations close to, and that support the viability of, retail centres and corridors. 

(f)  To have  business parks  that primarily  accommodate  contemporary  office and 
light  industrial  uses,  including  high  technology  industries.    Business  parks 
perform  vital  economic  and  employment  roles  in  the  subregion  and  primarily 
apply to larger campus–style business parks. 

(g)  To have development that is compatible with the desired character and role of 

the particular centre. 

(h)  To have development that achieves good urban design in terms of building form, 

bulk, architectural treatment and visual amenity. 

(i)  To have development that provides adequate amenity to people who live in, work 

in and visit the local area. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 2–NEIGHBOURHOOD CENTRES 

Explanation 

The Metropolitan Plan and Council's Residential Development Study nominates the 
smaller shopping centres in the City of Bankstown as neighbourhood centres.  The 
Metropolitan Plan defines neighbourhood centres as a small group of shops, typically 
focussed on a bus stop generally with the following characteristics: 

• 

Comprises  a  few  shops  and  services,  such  as  a  corner  shop,  petrol 
station/convenience  store,  cafe  and  newsagent,  with  access  to  local  and/or 
regional bus networks. 

•  May contain low and medium density housing within the walking catchment of 

the centre.  The walking catchment radius is 150 metres. 

•  May contain childcare centres, schools and other compatible activities located 

close together. 

This section provides the building envelope controls for development within Zone B1 
Neighbourhood Centre, the Condell Park Neighbourhood Centre within Zone B2 Local 
Centre, the Georges Hall Neighbourhood Centre within Zone B2 Local Centre and the 
Chullora  (Marketplace)  Neighbourhood  Centre  within  Zone  B2  Local  Centre.  
Applicants must note a building envelope is not a building, but a three dimensional 
shape that may determine the bulk and siting of a building.  After allowing for building 
articulation, the achievable floor space of a development is likely to be less than the 
building envelope. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have development that is compatible with the desired character and role of 

the particular centre. 

(b)  To have development that achieves good urban design in terms of building form, 

bulk, architectural treatment and visual amenity. 

(c)  To have development that provides adequate amenity to people who live in, work 

in and visit the neighbourhood centres. 

(d)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  development  provide 
appropriate amenity to neighbouring residential development in terms of access 
to sunlight and privacy. 

(e)  To provide storey limits for the neighbourhood centres. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Lot widths 

2.1  The minimum primary frontage for commercial development, shop top housing 
(containing a single dwelling), and mixed use development (that do not contain 
dwellings) is 6 metres. 

2.2  The minimum primary frontage for shop top housing and mixed use development 

that contains dwellings is 26 metres. 

2.3  The minimum primary frontage for residential flat buildings is 30 metres. 

Storey limit (not including basements) 

2.4  Development  must  comply  with  the  storey  limit  that  corresponds  with  the 
maximum building height shown for the site on the Height of Building Map as 
follows: 

Maximum building height as shown on the Height 
of Buildings Map (Bankstown LEP 2015) 
11 metres for the following neighbourhood centres: 
•  255A–257 Hector Street Bass Hill 
•  259 Hector Street Bass Hill 
•  360–366 Hector Street Bass Hill 
•  826 Hume Highway Bass Hill 
•  884–906 Hume Highway Bass Hill 
•  207–231 Miller Road Bass Hill 
•  35–55 Arlewis Street Chester Hill 
•  172 Hector Street Chester Hill 
•  178 Hector Street Chester Hill 
•  63–79 Middleton Road Chester Hill 
•  81–91 Miller Road Chester Hill 
•  68–70B Miller Road Chester Hill 
•  27 Woodville Road Chester Hill 
•  35 Woodville Road Chester Hill 
•  47 Woodville Road Chester Hill 
•  101–109 Denman Road Georges Hall 
•  21A–25A Hector Street Sefton 
•  251 & 253 Hector Street Sefton 
11 metres for all other neighbourhood centres 
14 metres 

Storey limit (not 
including basements) 
3 storeys (no attic) 

2 storeys (plus attic) 
4 storeys (no attic) 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Illustration to clause 2.4: Example of development with a 2 storey limit plus attic. 

2.5  The minimum floor to ceiling height for a living area is 2.7 metres. 

Setback to the primary and secondary frontages of allotments 

2.6  The minimum setback to the primary and secondary frontages of an allotment is 
zero setback for the basement level, the first storey (i.e. the ground floor), and 
the second storey. 

Setback to the side and rear boundaries of allotments 

2.7  Where development is adjacent to residential zoned land, Council may increase 

the minimum setbacks to the side and rear boundaries. 

2.8  For blank building walls with no window or balcony, the minimum setback to the 
side and rear boundaries of an allotment is zero setback for the basement level, 
the first storey (i.e. the ground floor), and the second storey. 

2.9  The  maximum  depth  for  cross–through  dwellings  (i.e.  single  or  dual  aspect 
dwellings where the side building walls do not contain a window or balcony) is 
14 metres. 

2.10  For building walls with a window or balcony in commercial development, shop 
top housing, and mixed use development that contains dwellings, the minimum 
setbacks to the side and rear boundaries of an allotment are: 

(a)  3  metres  for  the  first  storey  (i.e.  the  ground  floor).    Council  may  allow  a 
setback less than 3 metres provided it complies with the Building Code of 
Australia; and 

(b)  3 metres for the second storey. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2.11  For  building  walls  with  a  window  or  balcony  in  residential  flat  buildings,  the 
minimum setback to the side and rear boundaries of an allotment is 5 metres 
for all storeys. 

Setbacks within an allotment 

2.12  The  minimum  setbacks  between  two  or  more  habitable  buildings  on  an 

allotment in the neighbourhood centres are: 

(a)  9 metres between the external enclosing walls of dwellings; and 

(b)  6  metres  between  the  balconies,  above  ground  decks,  and  the  like  of 

dwellings. 

Building form and design 

2.13  Council  applies  the  design  quality  principles  of  State  Environment  Planning 
Policy No. 65–Design Quality of Residential Apartment Development and the 
Apartment  Design  Guide  to  residential  flat  buildings,  shop  top  housing, 
serviced apartments, boarding houses and mixed use development (containing 
dwellings).  This includes buildings that are two storeys or less, or contain less 
than four dwellings. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 3–VILLAGE AND SMALL VILLAGE CENTRES 

Explanation 

The Metropolitan Plan and Council's Residential Development Study nominates the 
large shopping centres in the City of Bankstown as village and small village centres.  
These  are  Bass  Hill,  Chester  Hill,  Greenacre,  Panania,  Padstow,  Punchbowl, 
Revesby,  Sefton  and  Yagoona.    The  Metropolitan  Plan  defines  village  and  small 
village centres as a group of shops and services for daily shopping generally with the 
following characteristics: 

• 

• 

• 

Comprises  a  mix  of  retail  premises  and  services  for  daily  shopping,  such  as 
supermarkets, butchers, banks, hairdressers, cafes, restaurants, and take away 
food shops, as well as child care centres, schools and other compatible activities 
in the immediate vicinity. 

Comprises good links with the surrounding neighbourhood, and to regional and 
local bus network services. 

Contains medium and high density housing within the walking catchments of the 
centres.  The walking catchment radius is approximately 400 metres for small 
village centres and 600 metres for village centres. 

This  section  provides  the  building  envelope  controls  for  development  in  the 
Greenacre, Panania, Padstow and Punchbowl village and small village centres and 
the East Hills neighbourhood centre within Zone B2 Local Centre.  Applicants must 
note a building envelope is not a building, but a three dimensional shape that may 
determine the bulk and siting of a building.  After allowing for building articulation, the 
achievable floor space of a development is likely to be less than the building envelope. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have development that is compatible with the desired character and role of 

the particular centre. 

(b)  To have development that achieves good urban design in terms of building form, 

bulk, architectural treatment and visual amenity. 

(c)  To have development that provides adequate amenity to people who live in, work 

in and visit the village centres and small village centres. 

(d)  To  ensure  the  building  form  and  building  design  of  development  provide 
appropriate amenity to neighbouring residential development in terms of access 
to sunlight and privacy. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(e)  To  have  transitional  areas  that  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing  suburban 

character and amenity of neighbouring residential environments. 

(f)  To provide storey limits for the village centres and small village centres. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Lot widths 

3.1  The minimum primary frontage for commercial development, shop top housing 
(containing a single dwelling), and mixed use development (that do not contain 
dwellings) with 2 or more storeys is 6 metres. 

3.2  The minimum primary frontage for shop top housing and mixed use development 
with  3  or  more  storeys  is  26  metres.    This  clause  applies  to  mixed  use 
development that contains dwellings. 

3.3  The minimum primary frontage for residential flat buildings with 3 or more storeys 

is 30 metres. 

Storey limit (not including basements) 

3.4  The storey limit for development is 3 storeys (plus attic). 

3.5  The minimum floor to ceiling height for a living area is 2.7 metres. 

Setbacks to the primary and secondary frontages of allotments 

3.6  The minimum setbacks to the primary and secondary frontages of an allotment 

are: 

(a)  zero setback for the basement level, the first storey (i.e. the ground floor), 

and the second storey; and 

(b)  3 metres for the third storey (a balcony may occupy this setback provided 
the roof or parapet of the second storey screens the balcony when viewed 
from the street); and 

(c)  5 metres for the fourth and fifth storeys. 

Setbacks to the side and rear boundaries of allotments 

3.7  Where development is adjacent to residential zoned land, Council may increase 

the minimum setbacks to the side and rear boundaries. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

3.8  For blank building walls with no window or balcony, the minimum setback to the 

side and rear boundaries of an allotment is: 

(a)  zero  setback  for  all  storeys  provided  the  setback  is  to  a  boundary  that 
adjoins non–residential zoned land and is not a secondary frontage; or 

(b)  where the setback is to a boundary that adjoins residential zoned land: 

(i) 

zero setback for the basement level, the first storey (i.e. the ground 
floor), and the second storey; and 

(ii)  5 metres for the third and fourth storeys; and 

(iii)  9 metres for the fifth storey. 

3.9  The  maximum  depth  for  cross–through  dwellings  (i.e.  single  or  dual  aspect 
dwellings where the side building walls do not contain a window or balcony) is 
14 metres. 

3.10  For building walls with a window or balcony in commercial development, shop 
top housing and mixed use development, the minimum setbacks to the side and 
rear boundaries of an allotment are: 

(a)  3  metres  for  the  first  storey  (i.e.  the  ground  floor).    Council  may  allow  a 
setback less than 3 metres provided it complies with the Building Code of 
Australia; and 

(b)  3 metres for the second storey; and 

(c)  5 metres for the third and fourth storeys; and 

(d)  5  metres  for  the  fifth  storey  provided  the  setback  is  to  a  boundary  that 

adjoins non–residential zoned land; or 

(e)  9 metres for the fifth storey where the setback is to a boundary that adjoins 

residential zoned land. 

3.11  For  building  walls  with  a  window  or  balcony  in  residential  flat  buildings,  the 
minimum setbacks to the side and rear boundaries of an allotment are: 

(a)  5 metres for all storeys; and 

(b)  9  metres  for  the  fifth  storey  where  the  setback  is  to  a  boundary  that 

adjoins residential zoned land. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Illustration to clause 3.6: Minimum 
setback to the primary and secondary 
frontages. 

Illustration to clause 3.8: Minimum 
setback to the side and rear boundaries for 
a building wall with no window or balcony. 

Illustration to clause 3.10: Minimum 
setback to the side and rear boundaries 
for a building wall with a window or 
balcony. 

Illustration to clause 3.11: Minimum 
setback to the side and rear boundaries for 
a building wall with a window or balcony. 

Setbacks within an allotment 

3.12  The  minimum  setbacks  between  two  or  more  habitable  buildings  on  an 

allotment are: 

(a)  9 metres between the external enclosing walls of dwellings; and 

(b)  6  metres  between  the  balconies,  above  ground  decks,  and  the  like  of 

dwellings. 

Building form and design 

3.13  Council  applies  the  design  quality  principles  of  State  Environment  Planning 
Policy No. 65–Design Quality of Residential Apartment Development and the 
Apartment  Design  Guide  to  residential  flat  buildings,  shop  top  housing, 
serviced apartments, boarding houses and mixed use development (containing 
dwellings).  This includes buildings that are two storeys or less, or contain less 
than four dwellings. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 4–ENTERPRISE CORRIDORS 

Explanation 

The  Metropolitan  Strategy  and  Council's  Residential  Development  Study  nominate 
the  Hume  Highway  as  an  enterprise  corridor.    The  Metropolitan  Strategy  defines 
enterprise  corridors  as  busy  roads  that  are  important  for  local  employment  and 
services.    The  commercial  activity  may  help  to  buffer more  sensitive  uses  such  as 
residential development. 

This section provides the building envelope controls for development within Zone B6 
Enterprise Corridor. 

Applicants must note: 

(a)  Certain  development may  need  to  comply  with  Part  A2  of  this  DCP.    Part A2 
provides more detailed development controls for centres and key development 
sites in the enterprise corridor.  The development controls include storey limits, 
setbacks, landscape buffer zones and access.  If applicable to a development 
application,  the  development  controls  of  Part  A2  will  prevail  if  there  is  an 
inconsistency with any development controls in Part B2. 

(b)  A building envelope is not a building, but a three dimensional shape that may 
determine the bulk and siting of a building.  After allowing for building articulation, 
the achievable floor space of a development is likely to be less than the building 
envelope. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  have  enterprise  corridors  that  provide  a  distinctive  and  high  quality 

environment for employment and economic activities. 

(b) 

to  have  a  landscape  buffer  zone  to  the  Hume  Highway  that  enhances  the 
Remembrance Driveway landscape corridor. 

(c)  To have commercial development that may act as a buffer between a classified 
road or industrial precinct and dwellings to improve the amenity of dwellings in 
terms of air quality and acoustic privacy. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Storey limit (not including basements) 

4.1  The storey limit for development is 2 storeys. 

Setbacks 

4.2  Development must provide a minimum 5 metre wide landscape buffer zone to 

the front boundary of an allotment. 

4.3  The  minimum  setback  to  the  side  and  rear  boundaries  of  an  allotment  is  6 

metres, with preference given to deep soil planting within the setback. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 5–BUILDING DESIGN 

Explanation 

Facades are the external face of buildings in the public realm and within a site.  Their 
architectural  quality  contributes  to  the  character  and  design  of  the  public  domain.  
High architectural quality requires the appropriate composition of building elements, 
textures, materials and colours and reflects the use, internal design and structure of 
a development. 

The  design  of  landscaped  areas,  front  fences  and  signage  is  also  an  important 
consideration.  Together, landscaped areas, front fences and buildings can operate 
as  an  integrated  and  sustainable  system,  resulting  in  greater  aesthetic  quality  and 
amenity for occupants and the adjoining Remembrance Driveway landscape corridor. 

Where signage is required for business identification, the design of signage should be 
compatible with the desired streetscape character, with the scale and proportions of 
the development and without obscuring or dominating important views. 

This  section  of  the  DCP  contains  building  design  controls  for  land  within  Zone  B1 
Neighbourhood Centre, Zone B2 Local Centre and Zone B6 Enterprise Corridor. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have high architectural quality in development. 

(b)  To encourage building facades and corner allotments to add visual interest to 

the streetscape. 

(c)  To provide pedestrian comfort and protection from the weather. 

(d)  To  have  facade  designs  and  building  footprints  that  integrate  into  the  overall 

building form and enhance the desired contemporary street character. 

(e)  To have a modern and interesting roof skyline. 

(f)  To give the Hume Highway the appearance of a business enterprise corridor by 
creating  active  business  frontages  and  limiting  the  domestic  appearance  of 
attics. 

(g)  To have front fences that achieve an attractive streetscape and incorporate open 

style construction such as spaced timber pickets or wrought iron. 

(h)  To ensure the design of dwellings are adaptable to a number of family types, 

and cater for senior residents and residents with disabilities. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(i)  To provide adequate amenity to the occupants of buildings and to neighbouring 

residential development in terms of solar access. 

(j)  To  provide  adequate  amenity  to  the  occupants  of  buildings  in  terms  of  open 

space. 

(k)  To provide appropriate landscaping in commercial centres. 

(l)  To have a landscape buffer zone that encourages deep soil planting to enhance 

commercial centres or arterial roads. 

(m)  To  ensure  the  siting  and  design  of  buildings  contribute  to  the  personal  and 

property security of people. 

(n)  To ensure development is integrated with the public domain and contribute to an 

active pedestrian orientated environment. 

(o)  To maximise natural surveillance so that people feel safe at all times. 

(p)  To  encourage  building  designs,  materials  and  maintenance  programs  that 

reduce the opportunities for vandalism and graffiti. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Facade design 

5.1  Council  applies  the  design  quality  principles  of  State  Environmental  Planning 
Policy  No  65–Design  Quality  of  Residential  Apartment  Development  and  the 
Apartment Design Guide to residential flat buildings, shop top housing, serviced 
apartments,  boarding  houses  and  mixed  use  development  (containing 
dwellings).  This includes buildings that are two storeys or less, or contain less 
than four dwellings. 

5.2  Development must articulate the facades to achieve a unique and contemporary 

architectural appearance that: 

(a)  unites the facades with the whole building form; 

(b)  composes  the  facades  with  an  appropriate  scale  and  proportion  that 

responds to the use of the building and the desired contextual character; 

(c)  combines high quality materials and finishes; 

(d)  considers the architectural elements shown in the illustration to this clause; 

and 

(e)  considers any other architectural elements to Council's satisfaction. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Illustration to clause 5.2: Architectural elements. 

3 

Architectural elements 

4 

1  contemporary 

2 

architectural appearance 

5 

6/7 

1 

8 

2  clear glazed facade 

3  contemporary roof 

design 

4  projecting wall elements 

5  sun shading devices 

6 

landscaped buffer zone 

7  no front fences 

8  signs integrated with the 

building 

5.3  Development  must  use  colour,  modulation,  or  articulation  to  improve  the 
appearance  of  blank  party  walls  when  viewed  from  the  street  and  adjoining 
residential zoned land. 

5.4  The  street  facade  of  development  on  corner  allotments  should  incorporate 

architectural corner features to add visual interest to the streetscape. 

5.5  Development should restrict the use of the first storey (i.e. the ground floor) to 

business, retail or other non–residential uses: 

(a) 

to maintain business and retail floor space in the business zones; and 

(b) 

to maintain active street frontages in the business zones. 

5.6  Development  in  enterprise  corridors  may  have  predominantly  glazed  facades 

provided it does not cause significant glare nuisance. 

Facade design (service stations and motor showrooms) 

5.7  Service stations and motor showrooms must provide a minimum 3 metre wide 

landscape buffer zone to the front boundary of an allotment. 

5.8  Service stations and motor showrooms must locate an active frontage use (such 
as a showroom, office, customer service area, convenience store or restaurant) 
along the Hume Highway boundary of an allotment. 

5.9  Service stations and motor showrooms must locate a vehicle repair station and 

associated car park at the basement level or at the rear of an allotment. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Attic and roof design 

5.10  Development must incorporate a high quality roof design that: 

(a)  achieves a unique and contemporary architectural appearance; and 

(b)  combines high quality materials and finishes. 

5.11  Council does not allow the following development to have attics: 

(a)  development  with  4  or  more  storeys  in  the  village,  small  village  and 

neighbourhood centres that adjoin the Hume Highway; or 

(b)  development in the enterprise corridors (this does not include residential 

development up to 2 storeys at the rear of an allotment). 

Adaptable housing 

5.12  Residential flat buildings, mixed use development and shop top housing that 

contain 10 or more dwellings must provide: 

(a)  at least one adaptable dwelling plus an adaptable dwelling for every 50 

dwellings; and 

(b)  must comply with AS 4299–Adaptable Housing. 

Awnings 

5.13  A traditional box awning must be provided continuously along retail streets to 
provide  pedestrian  shelter  to footpaths.    Council  may  allow  an  awning  other 
than a traditional box awning where it considers: 

(a) 

the awning design to be an integral feature of the building design; and 

(b) 

the awning design does not contain finishes susceptible to degradation 
(such as glazing material) that result in an unacceptable visual impact on 
the streetscape. 

Council does not support cut outs in awnings for trees and light poles. 

5.14  The height of an awning should: 

(a)  match the height of an adjoining or nearby awning; and 

(b)  have a consistent fascia height to accommodate a sign. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

5.15  Development  may  incorporate  an  awning  design  in  the  enterprise  corridors 

that: 

(a)  achieves a unique and contemporary architectural appearance; and 

(b)  combines high quality materials and finishes. 

Front fences 

5.16  The maximum fence height for a front fence is 1.8 metres. 

5.17  The  external  appearance  of  a  front  fence  along  the  street  boundary  of  an 

allotment must ensure: 

(a) 

(b) 

the  section  of  the  front  fence  that  comprises  solid  construction  (not 
including solid piers) must not exceed a fence height of 1 metre above 
natural ground level; and 

the  remaining  height  of  the  front  fence  must  comprise  open  style 
construction such as spaced timber pickets or wrought iron that enhance 
and unify the building design. 

5.18  Council  does  not  allow  the  following  types  of  front  fences  along  the  street 

boundary of an allotment: 

(a)  chain wire, metal sheeting, brushwood and electric fences; and 

(b)  noise attenuation walls. 

Lighting 

5.19  External lighting to development must give consideration to the impact of glare 

on the amenity of adjoining residents. 

5.20  This clause applies to development that adjoin the Hume Highway: 

(a) 

(b) 

the use of external lighting should accentuate the architectural form and 
features of development provided it does not cause significant glare on 
neighbours; and 

the use of exterior wall mounted flood lights is permitted at the front of 
development,  but  not  permitted  at  the  rear  of  development  unless  it 
serves as security lighting. 

Temporary structures 

5.21  Council does not allow development to be in the form of a temporary structure 

along the Hume Highway. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Acoustic privacy 

5.22  An office, shop, food premises and the like in neighbourhood centres must not 

open before 6.30am or close later than 10.00pm seven days a week. 

Access to sunlight 

5.23  The living areas for at least 70% of dwellings in a development must receive a 
minimum sum of 3 hours of sunlight between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–
winter  solstice.    Council  may  allow  light  wells  and  skylights  to  supplement 
access to sunlight.  However, these building elements must not be the primary 
source of sunlight to living areas. 

This clause applies to development that contain two or less storeys, or three or 
less  dwellings  such  as  shop  top  housing,  mixed  use  development  and 
residential flat buildings. 

5.24  The  living  areas  of  a  dwelling  on  an  adjoining  allotment  must  receive  a 
minimum sum of 3 hours of sunlight between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–
winter solstice.  Where this requirement cannot be met, the development must 
not  result  with  additional  overshadowing  on  the  affected  living  areas  of  the 
dwelling. 

Private open space 

5.25  The private open space per dwelling must have a minimum depth of 2 metres 
and  the  private  open  space  may  be  in  the  form  of  a  balcony.    This  clause 
applies  to  development  that  contain  two  or  less  storeys,  or  three  or  less 
dwellings such as shop top housing. 

Landscaping 

5.26  This clause applies to development in the village centres, small village centres, 
neighbourhood centres and enterprise corridors that adjoin the Hume Highway.  
Development and a landscape buffer zone must plant a 75 litre tree at 5 metre 
intervals along the length of the Hume Highway boundary of an allotment, and 
must select the trees from the list in Appendix 1. 

5.27  Commercial development and residential flat buildings with a primary frontage 
of 5 metres or more must provide at least 1 street tree per 5 metres of primary 
frontage.  Council may vary this requirement if a street tree already exists in 
good condition, if an awning or site constraints limit their inclusion, or a public 
domain plan is yet to determine the location of trees in a precinct. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Illustration to clause 5.26: Typical cross–section of setback with single row of trees 
along  the  Remembrance  Driveway  landscape  corridor.    This  setback  relates  to 
commercial and mixed use development. 

Illustration to clause 5.26: Typical cross–section of setback with service road and 
two rows of trees along the Remembrance Driveway landscape corridor.  This setback 
relates to commercial and mixed use development. 

Illustration to clause 5.26: Typical cross–section of setback with two rows of trees 
along  the  Remembrance  Driveway  landscape  corridor.    This  setback  relates  to 
residential flat buildings. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Entrances 

5.28  The main entrance or entrances to development must face the street. 

5.29  Access  to  the  dwelling  of  shop  top  housing,  mixed  use  development  and 
residential flat buildings must be from the street.  This may be provided: 

(a)  as a passage or stairway that is separate to the non–residential area in 

the building; or 

(b)  as  a  passage  or  stairway  that  shares  access  with  the  dwellings  of  an 
adjoining  development  provided  there  is  a  legal  arrangement  to  allow 
access at all times. 

5.30  Council may permit rear lane access to the dwelling of shop top housing and 
mixed use development provided the rear lane achieves an appropriate level 
of  safety,  security,  and  lighting for  residents  and  visitors.  This  clause  solely 
applies to the following neighbourhood centres: 

(a)  Nos. 90–100 Columbine Avenue, Bankstown; 

(b)  Nos. 101–109 Denham Road, Bass Hill; 

(c)  Nos. 1–7 Eldon Avenue and 48 Surrey Avenue, Georges Hall; 

(d)  Nos. 118–120 Rawson Road, Greenacre; 

(e)  Nos. 134–150 Centaur Street, Revesby Heights; and 

(f)  Nos. 63–79 Middleton Road, Villawood. 

Building design and natural surveillance 

5.31  Windows  to  the  living  areas  of  front  dwellings,  or  the  windows  on  the  upper 

floors of development must overlook the street. 

5.32  Where the ground floor of development faces the street, the ground floor must 
incorporate shopfront style windows with clear glazing so that pedestrians can 
see into the premises and vice versa.  The use of obscure or opaque glass, or 
other types of screening is discouraged. 

5.33  Above ground car parking must be setback a minimum 6 metres from the front 
building line to allow the gross floor area at the front of the building to be used 
for commercial, retail, or residential purposes.  This clause does not apply to 
the front building line that faces a rear lane. 

5.34  A  public  arcade  or  underpass  in  buildings  must  be  wide  and  direct  to  avoid 
potential hiding places.  Access to the arcade or underpass should be closed 
to the public between 11.00pm to 6.00am daily via a lockable door. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

5.35  Lighting must be provided to the underside of an awning using vandal resistant, 

high mounted light fixtures. 

Security devices for commercial development 

5.36  The security door or grille to a shopfront facing the street must be transparent 

or an open grille type shutter.  A solid roller door or shutter is not permitted. 

Special  requirements  for  development  adjoining  a  railway  corridor  and  open 
stormwater drains 

5.37  Where  an  allotment  shares  a  boundary  with  a  railway  corridor  or  an  open 
stormwater drain, any building, solid fence or car park on the allotment should, 
wherever practical, be setback a minimum 1.5 metres from that boundary.  The 
setback distance must be: 

(a) 

treated with hedging or climbing vines to screen the building, solid fence, 
or  car  park  when  viewed  from  the  railway  corridor  or  open  stormwater 
drain; and 

(b) 

the hedging or climbing vines must be planted prior to the completion of 
the development using a minimum pot size of 300mm; and 

(c) 

the planter bed area must incorporate a commercial grade, sub–surface, 
automatic, self–timed irrigation system; and 

(d) 

the  allotment  must  be  fenced  along  the  boundary  using  a  minimum  2 
metre high chain–wire fence; and 

(e)  where a car park adjoins the boundary, hedging or climbing vines must 
also  be  planted  along  the  sides  of  any  building  or  solid  fence  on  the 
allotment that face the railway corridor or open stormwater drain. 

If  a  setback for  landscaping  under  this  clause  is  impractical, other means to 
avoid  graffiti  must  be  employed  that  satisfies  Council’s  graffiti  minimisation 
strategy. 

Development adjacent to residential zones  

5.38  In determining a development application that relates to land adjoining land in 
Zone R2, R3 or R4, Council must take into consideration the following matters: 

(a)  whether any proposed building is compatible with the height, scale, siting 
and  character  of  existing  residential  development  within  the  adjoining 
residential zone; 

(b)  whether any goods, plant, equipment and other material used in carrying 
out  the  proposed  development  will  be  stored  or  suitably  screened  from 
residential development; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(c)  whether the proposed development will maintain reasonable solar access 
to residential development between the hours of 8.00am and 4.00pm at the 
mid–winter solstice; 

(d)  whether noise generation from fixed sources or motor vehicles associated 
with  the  proposed  development  will  be  effectively  insulated  or  otherwise 
minimised; 

(e)  whether  the  proposed  development  will  otherwise  cause  nuisance  to 
residents,  by  way  of  hours  of  operation,  traffic  movement,  parking, 
headlight glare, security lighting, fumes, gases, smoke, dust or odours, or 
the like; and 

(f)  whether any windows or balconies facing residential areas will be treated 
to avoid overlooking of private yard space or windows in residences. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 6–BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTRES AND BUSINESS PARKS 

Bankstown  Local  Environmental  Plan  2015  generally 
the  business 
development  centres  within  Zone  B5  Business  Development  close  to  centres  or 
corridors where it will support (and not detract from) the viability of those centres or 
corridors. 

locates 

Bankstown  Local  Environmental  Plan 2015 nominates  land  at  the  former  Potts  Hill 
Reservoirs site as Zone B7 Business Park. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have development that is compatible with the desired character and role of 

the particular business zone. 

(b)  To have development that achieves good urban design in terms of building form, 

bulk, architectural treatment and visual amenity. 

(c)  To  have  transitional  areas  that  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing  suburban 

character and amenity of neighbouring residential environments. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Storey limit 

6.1  The  storey  limit  for  development  is  2  storeys.    Council  does  not  allow 

development to have attics. 

Setbacks 

6.2  Development must provide a minimum 5 metre wide landscape buffer zone to 

the primary and secondary road frontages. 

6.3  The  minimum  setback  to  the  side  and  rear  boundaries  of  an  allotment  is  6 

metres, with preference given to deep soil planting within the setback. 

6.4  Council may increase the minimum setbacks to the side and rear boundaries: 

(a) 

to  maintain  reasonable  solar  access  or  visual  privacy  to  neighbouring 
dwellings; or 

(b) 

to avoid an easement or the dripline of a tree on an allotment or adjoining 
allotment. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Building design (business development zones) 

6.5  Development must articulate the facades to achieve a unique and contemporary 

architectural appearance that: 

(a)  unites the facades with the whole building form; 

(b)  composes  the  facades  with  an  appropriate  scale  and  proportion  that 

responds to the use of the building and the desired contextual character; 

(c)  combines high quality materials and finishes; 

(d)  considers the architectural elements shown in the illustration to this clause; 

and 

(e)  considers any other architectural elements to Council's satisfaction. 

Illustration to clause 6.5: Architectural elements. 

3 

Architectural elements 

4 

1  contemporary 

2 

architectural appearance 

5 

6/7 

1 

8 

2  clear glazed facade 

3  contemporary roof 

design 

4  projecting wall elements 

5  sun shading devices 

6 

landscaped buffer zone 

7  no front fences 

8  signs integrated with the 

building 

6.6  Development  may  have  predominantly  glazed  facades  provided  it  does  not 

cause significant glare nuisance. 

6.7  Development may incorporate an awning design that: 

(a)  achieves a unique and contemporary architectural appearance; and 

(b)  combines high quality materials and finishes. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

26 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Building design (business parks) 

6.8  Development must comply with the Potts Hill Reservoir Concept Plan: Business 
Park  Design  Guidelines  dated  9  July  2008  prepare  by  Allen  Jack  +  Cottier 
subject to the following landscape setback requirements: 

(a)  Site E: 

(i)  A minimum building setback of 6 metres to the northern boundary. 
(ii)  A minimum building setback of 10 metres to the southern boundary. 

(b)  Site A: 

(i)  A minimum building setback of 6 metres for the northern boundary. 

(c)  A  minimum  60%  of  the  nominated  landscaped  setback  areas  are  to 

incorporate deep soil planting. 

Access to sunlight 

6.9  The design of buildings should achieve a northern orientation to maximise solar 

access. 

6.10  The living areas of a dwelling on an adjoining allotment must receive a minimum 
sum  of  3  hours  of  sunlight  between  8.00am  and  4.00pm  at  the  mid–winter 
solstice.    Where  this  requirement  cannot  be  met,  the  development  must  not 
result with additional overshadowing on the affected living areas of the dwelling. 

Development adjacent to residential zones 

6.11  In determining a development application that relates to land adjoining land in 
Zone R2, R3 or R4, Council must take into consideration the following matters: 

(a)  whether any proposed building is compatible with the height, scale, siting 
and  character  of  existing  residential  development  within  the  adjoining 
residential zone; 

(b)  whether any goods, plant, equipment and other material used in carrying 
out  the  proposed  development  will  be  stored  or  suitably  screened  from 
residential development; 

(c)  whether the proposed development will maintain reasonable solar access 
to residential development between the hours of 8.00am and 4.00pm at the 
mid–winter solstice; 

(d)  whether noise generation from fixed sources or motor vehicles associated 
with  the  proposed  development  will  be  effectively  insulated  or  otherwise 
minimised; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(e)  whether  the  proposed  development  will  otherwise  cause  nuisance  to 
residents,  by  way  of  hours  of  operation,  traffic  movement,  parking, 
headlight glare, security lighting, fumes, gases, smoke, dust or odours, or 
the like; and 

(f)  whether any windows or balconies facing residential areas will be treated 
to avoid overlooking of private yard space or windows in residences. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION  7–AMUSEMENT  CENTRES,  INTERNET  CAFES  AND  RESTRICTED 
PREMISES 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have amusement centres, internet cafes and restricted premises where the 
location, design, and activities do not affect the neighbourhood or surrounding 
uses. 

(b)  To have amusement centres and internet cafes that are not used or intended to 

be used for gambling. 

(c)  To  have  amusement  centres  and  internet  cafes  where  the  management  and 

patrons conduct themselves in an orderly manner. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Location 

7.1  The siting of amusement centres and internet cafes must consider the following 

factors: 

(a)  proximity to schools, churches, hotels, and the like; and 

(b) 

impact on neighbouring properties or businesses; and 

(c)  security of the neighbourhood; and 

(d)  visibility of the premises to the street. 

Building design (amusement centres) 

7.2  Amusement centres must locate on the ground floor of a building. 

7.3  The front door and public access to amusement centres must face the street. 

7.4  The shopfront windows must use clear glazing.  Council does not allow the use 

of obscure or opaque glass, or other types of screening. 

7.5  The publicly accessible gross floor area of amusement centres must: 

(a)  be well lit and visible to the street; and 

(b)  be an open design with no partitioned area or separate room (not including 

toilets). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

7.6  The number of games and amusement devices in amusement centres must not 

exceed the publicly accessible gross floor area divided by five. 

7.7  Amusement centres must provide the following toilet facilities: 

(a)  male–minimum  1 WC,  1  urinal,  and  1  wash  hand  basin per  75m2 of  the 

publicly accessible gross floor area; and 

(b) 

female–minimum 1 WC and 1 wash hand basin per 75m2 of the publicly 
accessible gross floor area. 

7.8  Where  amusement  centres  are  associated  with  recreational  facilities  or 

restaurants, the following requirements will apply: 

(a) 

the  dining  area  for  the  consumption  of  food  and  beverages  must  not 
exceed 20% of the publicly accessible gross floor area; and 

(b)  eating and drinking facilities must relate to the standard of a cafe or take 

away food and drink premises. 

7.9  Development  must  ensure  the  floor  of  an  existing  building  has  sufficient  load 

capacity to support the proposed games and amusement devices. 

Building design (restricted premises) 

7.10  The consent authority must not grant consent to development for the purposes 
of restricted premises on land that is within 200 metres of land within Zone R2 
Low Density Residential, Zone R3 Medium Density Residential, Zone R4 High 
Density Residential or Zone RE1 Public Recreation.  

7.11  The consent authority may consent to the carrying out of development for the 
purpose of restricted premises only where conditions are imposed (in addition 
to any other conditions which may be imposed by the Council) which require 
that: 

(a)  no  part  of  the  premises,  other  than  an  access  corridor,  will  be  located 
within 1,500 millimetres (measured vertically) from any adjoining footpath, 
roadway, arcade or other public thoroughfare; and 

(b)  any signage related to the premises will be of a size, shape and content 

that does not interfere with the amenity of the locality; and 

(c)  no other objects, products or goods related to the restricted premises will 

be visible from outside the premises. 

General requirements 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

7.12  Noise  from  amusement  centres  must  not  exceed  5dB(A)  above  the  existing 

background noise level of the allotment. 

7.13  The  hours  of  operation  of  amusement  centres  must  not  interfere  with  the 
existing  and  future  amenity  of  the  neighbourhood.    Council  may  require 
amusement centres to close prior to hotels, wine bars, or bistros in the area. 

7.14  The proprietor of an amusement centre must ensure: 

(a) 

the proprietor or nominee is on the premises at all times; and 

(b) 

there is a sufficient number of employees on duty to ensure the premises 
operates in an orderly manner at all times; and 

(c) 

the name of any employee on duty is displayed at all times; and 

(d)  a copy of the conditions of development consent is displayed inside the 

premises; and 

(e) 

there  is  no  congestion  or  obstruction  on  the  footpath  outside  the 
premises; and 

(f) 

there is no bad language used on or outside the premises; and 

(g) 

there is no person aged under 12 years entering the amusement centre 
unless accompanied by an adult; and 

(h) 

there is no alcohol and drugs on the premises; and 

(i) 

there is no person under the influence of alcohol or drugs on the premises; 
and 

(j) 

there is no gambling; and 

(k) 

there  is  no  monetary  prize  offered  as  a  reward  for  skill  in  playing  any 
games and amusement devices. 

Time–limited consent 

7.15  Development consent for amusement centres is likely to be for a 12 month trial 
period.  This will allow Council to evaluate whether the development is affecting 
the amenity of the area.  The proprietor should apply for an extension of the 
development consent prior to the expiry of the trial period. 

SECTION 8–HOME BUSINESSES 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  allow  residents  to  carry  out  home  businesses  within  a  limited  area  of 

dwellings. 

(b)  To ensure home businesses have a minimal impact on the amenity of adjoining 

properties. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

General restrictions on development 

8.1  Council prohibits the registration of home businesses as a factory or similar use 

under the requirements of WorkCover NSW. 

Floor area 

8.2  Home businesses may occupy up to 30m2 of gross floor area in an outbuilding 
provided  the  home  business  does  not  reduce  the  required  off–street  parking 
spaces for the dwelling. 

8.3  Home  businesses  may  occupy  up  to  30m2  of  gross  floor  area  in  a  dwelling 

provided the home business is restricted to a single room. 

Amenity 

8.4  Council must consider the following matters to ensure home businesses have a 

minimal impact on the amenity of adjoining properties: 

(a) 

the likely number of vehicle, delivery, and visitor movements; 

(b) 

the size of delivery vehicles associated with the home business; 

(c) 

the siting of loading activities behind the front building line; 

(d) 

the type of equipment or machinery to be used by the home business; 

(e) 

the  need  for  an  acoustic  report  where  the  home  business  is  likely  to 
generate significant noise levels; 

(f) 

the need to control any odours or emissions; and 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

32 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(g)  whether  the  hours  of  operation  are  within  8.00am  to  6.00pm  Monday  to 

Saturday, and not at any time on a Sunday or public holiday. 

Building design (signage) 

8.5  Business identification signs must comply with the following controls: 

(a)  Council permits only one sign per allotment; 

(b) 

the total sign area must not exceed 1.2 metre x 0.6 metre; 

(c) 

the sign is to be located on or behind the building line; 

(d) 

the sign is to be located at or below the awning level.  Where there is no 
awning to the building, the sign is solely permitted below the window sill of 
the second storey windows; 

(e) 

if  the  sign  is  painted or  attached  to  a  building,  the  sign  must not  screen 
windows and other significant architectural features of the building; 

(f) 

the sign is to be non–illuminated; 

(g)  Council  does  not  permit  flashing  signs,  flashing  lights,  signs  which 
incorporate devices which change colour, signs where movement can be 
recognised by a passing motorist, signs that are not permanently fixed to 
the site, and signs made of canvas, calico or the like; and  

(h)  Council may allow standard doctors’, dentists’ and veterinarians’ signs. 

8.6  Corporate  colours,  logos  and  other  graphics  must  achieve  a  high  degree  of 
compatibility with the architecture, materials, finishes and colours of the building 
and the streetscape. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

33 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 9–ANCILLARY DEVELOPMENT 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  have  ancillary  development  that unifies the  development  appearance,  and 
achieves  good  urban  design  in  terms  of  architectural  treatment  and  visual 
amenity. 

(b)  To have signage that is compatible with the development on which it is displayed 

and the character of the locality. 

(c)  To have development that does not lead to visual clutter through the proliferation 

of signage and displays. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objective are: 

Business and building identification signs 

9.1  Business and building identification signs within Zone B1 Neighbourhood Centre 

and Zone B2 Local Centre must comply with the following controls: 

(a)  one under awning sign is permitted for each shop with a frontage up to 6 

metres; 

(b) 

in addition to the under awning sign, the total permissible area of all signs 
must not exceed 1.1 square metres per 1.5 metres of street frontage; and 

(c)  signs must not be permitted to overhang the footway unless such signs are 
under awning signs or where the sign is painted on the front of the awning, 
or where the maximum projection does not exceed 0.75 metre. 

9.2  Council may allow development within Zone B5 Business Development to have 

a pylon sign provided: 

(a) 

it  is  limited  to one  pylon  sign for  each  allotment boundary  that adjoins a 
classified road; and 

(b) 

the sign is predominantly rectangular in shape with a vertical proportion; 
and 

(c) 

the envelope of the sign is 4 metres or 9 metres in height (to encourage 
two consistent heights rather than a variety of heights) and a maximum 2 
metres in width. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

34 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

In addition, Council may allow development to have other business or building 
identification signs provided: 

(a) 

the signs are attached to a building; and 

(b) 

the signs are suitably integrated with the architectural style of the building. 

9.3  Development within Zone B5 Business Development must not display business 
or  building  identification  signs  or  goods  in  the  landscape  buffer  zone  of  an 
allotment.  This clause does not apply to a pylon sign. 

9.4  Development within Zone B6 Enterprise Corridors is limited to one pylon sign for 
each allotment boundary that adjoins the Hume Highway, and must ensure: 

(a) 

the sign is predominantly rectangular in shape with a vertical proportion; 

(b) 

the envelope of the sign is 4 metres or 9 metres in height (to encourage 
two consistent heights rather than a variety of heights) and a maximum 2 
metres in width; and 

(c) 

the  sign  only  identifies  the  businesses  on  the  allotment  and  the  street 
number to assist customers and visitors. 

9.5 

In addition to clause 9.4, Council may allow development to have other business 
identification signs provided: 

(a) 

the signs are attached to a building; and 

(b) 

the signs are suitably integrated with the architectural style of the building. 

9.6  Development must not display signs or goods in the landscape buffer zone of an 

allotment.  This clause does not apply to a pylon sign. 

9.7  Building identification signs and business identification signs that are painted or 
attached  to  a  building  must  not  screen  windows  and  other  significant 
architectural features of the building. 

9.8  Council does not allow the following signs: 

(a) 

(b) 

flashing  signs,  flashing  lights,  signs  which  incorporate  devices  which 
change colour, a sign where movement can be recognised by a passing 
motorist; 

signs  extending  over  street  boundaries,  other  than  those permitted  in 
conjunction with shops, or the like, where such buildings are erected on 
the street alignment; 

(c) 

any sign that would adversely affect existing traffic lights; 

(d) 

any sign that is not permanently fixed to the site; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

35 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(e) 

any sign made of canvas, calico or the like.  Council may grant a limited 
approval for a maximum period of 1 month, provided the sign complies 
with relevant legislation; 

(f) 

any under awning sign in excess of 2.5 metres x 0.4 metre; and 

(g) 

signs at a lower level than 2.6 metres over the footway. 

Food premises 

9.9  The design, construction, and operation of a food premises must comply with: 

(a)  Food Act 2003; 

(b)  Food Regulation 2010; 

(c)  FSANZ Food Standards Code; and 

(d)  AS 4674:2004 Design, Construction, and Fitout of Food Premises. 

Waste storage areas 

9.10  Mixed  use  development  that  contains  dwellings  and  shop  top  housing  must 
provide at least two waste storage areas to separately cater for the dwellings 
and non–residential uses on an allotment. 

9.11  Development must provide a waste storage area inside every food premises, 
and inside any shop that is capable of accommodating a food premises. 

9.12  The minimum size for a waste storage area is listed in Appendix 2. 

9.13  Development must locate a waste storage area inside the building, or adjacent 

to a lane where it is: 

(a)  convenient and safe for residents, tenants, and waste collection trucks to 

access the waste storage area; and 

(b) 

the location and floor level are to the satisfaction of Council. 

9.14  Where it is impractical for a residential flat building to comply with clause 9.13, 
Council may permit the waste storage area to be located forward of the front 
building line provided: 

(a) 

the waste storage area is setback a minimum 1.5 metres from the primary 
and secondary frontages, and the setback area is: 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

36 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(i) 

planted with a mix of native and fragrant type vegetation (such as 
murraya  paniculate,  rosmarinus  officinalis,  or  lavandula  species) 
using a minimum pot size of 300mm; and 

(ii)  a  commercial  grade,  sub–surface,  automatic,  self–timed  irrigation 
system is installed in the planter bed.  The system must be regularly 
checked for successful continued operation; and 

(b) 

the entry to the waste storage area is parallel to the adjoining primary or 
secondary frontage; and 

(c) 

the walls are constructed in brickwork to complement the residential flat 
building, and should incorporate architectural elements to articulate the 
blank walls facing the street.  This may include but not be limited to: 

(i) 

(ii) 

defining the base, middle, or top of the wall facing the street using 
different coloured brickwork; or 

incorporating horizontal or vertical elements such as recessed walls 
or banding; and 

(d)  a  brick  header  course  is  placed  around  the  top  perimeter  of  the  waste 
storage area with the roof sitting above or below the header course; and 

(e) 

the level of the floor and entry to the waste storage area is flat to match 
the level of the vehicular crossing over the footpath; and 

(f) 

the first 9 metres of the driveway measuring from the street is constructed 
to withstand a 8.5 tonne wheel load. 

Infrastructure 

9.15  The  siting  of  plant  rooms,  lift  motor  rooms,  mechanical  ventilation  stacks, 

exhaust stacks and the like must: 

(a) 

integrate  with  the  architectural  features  of  the  building  to  which  it  is 
attached; or 

(b)  be sufficiently screened when viewed from the street and neighbouring 

residential zoned land. 

Parent rooms 

9.16  Retail shopping complexes, entertainment establishments and entertainment 

facilities must provide at least one parent room. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

37 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1–Suitable trees on the Hume Highway 

Australian Native Species  Common Name 

Preferred Soil 

sand / clay 
Improved soil conditions 
composted garden soil 

s* 

s* 

Lilli Pilli 
Smooth Barked Apple 
Illawarra Flame Tree 
Tuckeroo 
Blueberry Ash 
Blue Box 
Scribbly Gum 
Spotted Gum 
Grey Box 
Australian Teak/ Crows Ash 
Tulipwood 
Lemon Scented Tea Tree 
Brushbox 
Queensland Firewheel Tree 
Turpentine 
Small Leaf Lilli Pilli 
Water Gum 

Acmena smithii 
Angophora costata 
Brachychiton acerifolius 
Cupaniopsis anarchoides 
Elaeocarpus reticulatus 
Eucalyptus beaureana 
Eucalyptus haemastoma 
Eucalyptus maculata 
Eucalyptus moluccana 
Flindersia australis 
Harpullia pendula 
Leptospermum petersonii 
Lophostemon conferta 
Stenocarpus sinuatus 
Syncarpia glomulifera 
Syzygium luehmannii 
Tristaniopsis laurina 
* Asterix denotes plant species native to Bankstown area.  NOTE: Plants listed will benefit 
from improved garden soil conditions, irrigation and ongoing maintenance.  The above plant 
list is not exhaustive, additional species may be considered.  Planting to be determined with 
concession to site conditions, aspect, exposure, drainage and surrounding vegetation. 

s/c* 

s/c* 

c* 

Non–Native Species 

Common Name 

Preferred Soil– 
Improved Organic 

Gordonia axillaris 
Jacaranda mimosaefolia 
Koelreutaria paniculata 
Lagerstroemia indica 
Liriodendron tulipifera 
Magnolia grandiflora 
Platanus cuniata 
Platanus x hybrida 
Pyrus calleryana 
Pyrus ussuriensis 
Sapium sebiferum 
Ulmus parvifolia 
Zelkova serrata 

Gordonia 
Jacaranda 
Pride Of China 
Crepe Myrtle 
Tulip Tree 
Bull Bay Magnolia 
Cut–Leaf Plane 
London Plane 
Callery Pear 
Manchurian Pear 
Chinese Tallowood 
Chinese Elm 
Japanese Elm, Keyaki 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

38 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 2–Waste storage areas 

Development controls 

(a)  Where development contains 6 or less dwellings, the minimum dimensions for 

the residential waste storage area are: 

Number of 
dwellings 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 

Number of 
waste bins 
(120 litre) 
1 per dwelling 
1 per dwelling 
1 per dwelling 
1 per dwelling 
1 per dwelling 
1 per dwelling 

Number of 
recycling bins 
(240 litre) 
1 
2 
2 
2 
3 
3 

Size of waste storage area 

Minimum length and width (m) 
storage space as part of dwelling 
storage space as part of dwelling 
2.0/2.0 + 1m2 per recycling bin 
2.0/2.0 + 1m2 per recycling bin 
3.0/2.0 + 1m2 per recycling bin 
3.0/2.0 + 1m2 per recycling bin 

(b)  Where development contains 7 or more dwellings, the minimum dimensions for 

the residential waste storage area are: 

Number of 
dwellings 

7–15 

16–27 

28–39 

40–50 

Number of 
waste bins 
(1100 litre) 
1 

2 

3 

4 

51 or more 

Special  
requirements 

Number of 
recycling bins 
(240 litre) 
1 recycling bin 
per 4 dwellings 
1 recycling bin 
per 5 dwellings 
1 recycling bin 
per 6 dwellings 
1 recycling bin 
per 7 dwellings 
Special 
requirements 

Size of waste storage area 

Minimum length and width (m) 
3.0/3.0 + 1m2 per recycling bin 

5.0/3.0 + 1m2 per recycling bin 

5.0/4.5 + 1m2 per recycling bin 

5.0/4.5 + 1m2 per recycling bin 

Special requirements 

(c)  Commercial  premises  must  provide  a  commercial  waste  storage  area  to  the 

following minimum dimensions: 

Gross floor area 

less than 100m2 
100m2–500m2 
greater than 500m2 

Size of waste storage area 
Minimum length and width (m) 
3.0/3.0 
5.0/3.0 
special requirements 

(d)  With any waste storage area: 

(i) 

the wall height must ensure people can walk into the waste storage area 
and the lid of a waste bin can be opened with ease, and 

(ii)  Council  may  increase  the  minimum  dimensions  for  a  commercial  waste 
storage area depending on the likely use of the gross floor area and the 
frequency of collection services. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B2 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

39 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown 
Development 
Control 
Plan 2015 

PART B3 

INDUSTRIAL 
PRECINCTS   

 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

CONTENTS 

Section 1 

Introduction   

Section 2 

Building Envelopes   

Section 3 

Building Design 

Section 4 

Environmental Management 

Section 5 

Ancillary Development 

Section 6 

Chullora Technology Park   

Section 7 

Nos. 52 and 60 Roberts Road in Greenacre 

3 

4 

8 

13 

15 

19 

22 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 1–INTRODUCTION 

Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015 is Council's principal planning document 
to  regulate  effective  and  orderly  development  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.    The  LEP 
provides  objectives,  zones  and  development  standards  such  as  lot  sizes  and  floor 
space ratios. 

Part  B3  of  Bankstown  Development  Control  Plan  2015  supplements  the  LEP  by 
providing additional objectives and development controls to enhance the function and 
appearance  of  industrial  precincts  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.    The  development 
controls include setbacks and building design. 

Part  B3  generally  applies  to  land  within  Zone  IN1  General Industrial  and  Zone  IN2 
Light Industrial under the provisions of Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015, 
and to land where high technology industry is an additional permitted use.  

Desired character objectives 

(a)  To have general industrial precincts in the City of Bankstown that accommodates 
a wide range of contemporary industries, warehouses and other compatible land 
uses  within  a  generous  landscape  setting,  and protects  the industrial  land for 
industrial uses. 

(b)  To have light industrial precincts in the City of Bankstown that accommodates a 
range  of  contemporary  light  industries  and  warehouses  within  a  landscaped 
setting, and will not cause nuisance or adversely affect the surrounding amenity 
for example by way of noise or emissions. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 2–BUILDING ENVELOPES 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have development that is compatible with the desired character and role of 

the particular industrial precinct. 

(b)  To  have  transitional  areas  that  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing  suburban 

character and amenity of neighbouring residential environments. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Site coverage 

2.1  The sum of the site coverage on an allotment must not exceed: 

(a)  70% of the site area if a single business is to occupy the allotment; or 

(b)  60% of the site area if two or more businesses are to occupy the allotment. 

Setbacks to the primary and secondary road frontages of allotments 

2.2  Where  allotments  adjoin  a  state  or  regional  road  (refer  to  Appendix  1),  the 
minimum setback for development to the primary and secondary road frontages 
is 15 metres. 

2.3  Where allotments do not adjoin a state or regional road, the minimum setback 

for development: 

(a) 

to the primary road frontage is 10 metres; and 

(b) 

to the secondary road frontage is 3 metres. 

2.4  Despite clauses 2.2 and 2.3, Council may vary the minimum setback provided 

the development: 

(a)  complies with any statutory alignment that applies to an allotment; or 

(b)  provides adequate space to meet the vehicle access, car parking, loading 

and landscaping controls; or 

(c) 

is compatible with the building alignment of neighbouring development or 
the desired character of the area; or 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(d)  achieves an appropriate bulk and scale. 

Setbacks to the side and rear boundaries of allotments 

2.5  Council may require minimum setbacks to the side and rear boundaries of an 

allotment: 

(a) 

to  maintain  reasonable  solar  access  or  visual  privacy  to  neighbouring 
dwellings; or 

(b) 

to avoid an easement or the dripline of a tree on an allotment or adjoining 
allotment; or 

(b) 

to  comply  with  any  multi–level  risk  assessment  undertaken  for  a 
development that ascertains the need for an appropriate setback or buffer 
zone  between  the  development  and  any  adjoining  or  neighbouring  land 
within a residential zone. 

2.6  The design of buildings must ensure that: 

(a)  At least one living area of a dwelling on an adjoining allotment must receive 
a minimum 3 hours of sunlight between 8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–
winter solstice.  Where this requirement cannot be met, the development 
must not result with additional overshadowing on the affected living areas 
of the dwelling. 

(b)  A  minimum  50%  of  the  required  private  open  space  for  a  dwelling  that 
adjoins  a  development  receives  at  least  3  hours  of  sunlight  between 
9.00am  and  5.00pm  at  the  equinox.   Where  this  requirement  cannot  be 
met, the development must not result with additional overshadowing on the 
affected private open space. 

Setbacks to riparian corridors 

2.7  Development  must  achieve  a  minimum  setback  of  15  metres  from  a  riparian 
corridor (measured from the top of the watercourse banks), and must revegetate 
the riparian corridor to Council's satisfaction. 

Setbacks to Cox's Creek in Greenacre 

2.8  Development  at  No.  229  Roberts  Road  in  Greenacre  (as  shown  in  Figure  1) 

must comply with the following setbacks: 

(a)  no development within the "no development" area; 

(b)  a minimum 10 metre setback to the northern boundary (adjacent to Cox's 

Creek Reserve); and 

(c)  a minimum 25 metre setback to the centre line of Cox's Creek. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 1: Map of No. 229 Roberts Road in Greenacre. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2.9  Development or change of use at No. 229 Roberts Road in Greenacre must 
prepare a Maintenance Program to preserve and maintain existing vegetation 
within the "no development" area. 

2.10  Development that modifies 40% or more of the developable site area at No. 
229 Roberts Road in Greenacre must prepare a Management Plan to: 

(a) 

reinstate indigenous vegetation in the "no development" area; 

(b) 

replace any loss of trees; 

(c) 

rehabilitate Cox's Creek; 

(d) 

implement an active weed control program; 

(e)  develop a viable seed collection program to propagate indigenous plants 

on the site; and 

(f)  avoid any impact on threatened fauna species, populations or ecological 

communities and their habitats. 

Development adjacent to residential zones  

2.11  In determining a development application that relates to land adjoining land in 
Zone R2, R3 or R4, Council must take into consideration the following matters:  

(a)  whether any proposed building is compatible with the height, scale, siting 
and  character  of  existing  residential  development  within  the  adjoining 
residential zone;  

(b)  whether any goods, plant, equipment and other material used in carrying 
out  the  proposed  development  will  be  stored  or  suitably  screened  from 
residential development;  

(c)  whether the proposed development will maintain reasonable solar access 
to residential development between the hours of 8.00am and 4.00pm at the 
mid–winter solstice;  

(d)  whether noise generation from fixed sources or motor vehicles associated 
with  the  proposed  development  will  be  effectively  insulated  or  otherwise 
minimised;  

(e)  whether  the  proposed  development  will  otherwise  cause  nuisance  to 
residents,  by  way  of  hours  of  operation,  traffic  movement,  parking, 
headlight glare, security lighting, fumes, gases, smoke, dust or odours, or 
the like; and  

(f)  whether any windows or balconies facing residential areas will be treated 
to avoid overlooking of private yard space or windows in residences. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 3–BUILDING DESIGN 

Objectives 

The objective is: 

(a)  To have development that achieves good urban design in terms of building form, 

bulk, architectural treatment and visual amenity. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objective is: 

Facade design 

3.1  Development must articulate the facades to achieve a unique and contemporary 

architectural appearance that: 

(a)  unites the facades with the whole building form; 

(b)  composes  the  facades  with  an  appropriate  scale  and  proportion  that 

responds to the use of the building and the desired contextual character; 

(c)  combines high quality materials and finishes; 

(d)  considers the architectural elements shown in the illustration to this clause; 

and 

(e)  considers any other architectural elements to Council's satisfaction. 

Illustration to clause 3.1: Architectural elements. 

3 

Architectural elements 

5 

6/7 

4 

2 

1  contemporary architectural 

appearance 

1 

2  clear glazed facade 

3  contemporary roof design 

4  projecting wall elements 

8 

5  sun shading devices 

6 

landscaped buffer zone 

7  no front fences 

8  signs integrated with the 

building 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

3.2  Development  may  have  predominantly  glazed  facades  provided  it  does  not 

cause significant glare nuisance. 

3.3 

Industrial  retail  outlets  must  incorporate  shopfront  style  windows  with  clear 
glazing  so  that  people  can  see  into  the  premises  and  vice  versa.    Council 
discourages the use of obscure or opaque glass, or other types of screening. 

3.4  Where  development  proposes  a  portal  frame  or  similar  construction,  Council 
does not allow the “stepping” of the parapet to follow the line of the portal frame. 

Facade design (corner allotments) 

3.5  The  street  facade  of  development  on  a  corner  allotment  must  incorporate 

architectural corner features to add visual interest to the streetscape. 

Facade design (materials) 

3.6  Development must use: 

(a)  quality materials such as brick, glass, and steel to construct the facades to 
a  development  (Council  does  not  permit  the  use  of  standard  concrete 
block); and 

(b)  masonry  materials  to  construct  a  factory  unit  within  a  building,  and  all 

internal dividing walls separating the factory units. 

Despite this clause, Council may consider a small portion of the street facade to 
comprise  metal  sheet  or  other  low  maintenance  material  provided  it  complies 
with the Building Code of Australia. 

Facade design (service stations and vehicle sales or hire premises) 

3.7  Service stations and vehicle sales or hire premises must provide a minimum 3 
metre wide landscape buffer zone to the front boundary of an allotment. 

3.8  Service  stations  and  vehicle  sales  or  hire  premises  must  locate  the  active 
frontage uses (such as a showroom, office, customer service area, convenience 
store, or restaurant) along the primary road frontage of an allotment. 

3.9  Service stations and vehicle sales or hire premises must locate the vehicle repair 
stations and associated car parking areas in the basement or at the rear of an 
allotment. 

Roof design 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

3.10  Development must incorporate an innovative roof design that: 

(a)  achieves a unique and contemporary architectural appearance; and 

(b)  combines high quality materials and finishes. 

Safety and security 

3.11  The front door to buildings should face the street. 

3.12  The administration offices or industrial retail outlets must locate at the front of 

buildings. 

3.13  Windows on the upper floors of a building must, where possible, overlook the 

street. 

3.14  Access  to  loading  docks  or  other  restricted  areas  in  buildings  must  only  be 
available to tenants via a large security door with an intercom, code, or lock 
system. 

3.15  Unless impractical, access to outdoor car parks must be closed to the public 

outside of business hours via a lockable gate. 

3.16  Development  must  provide  lighting  to  the  external  entry  paths,  common 
lobbies,  driveways  and  car  parks  using  vandal  resistant,  high  mounted  light 
fixtures. 

3.17  Where  an  allotment  shares  a  boundary  with  a  railway  corridor  or  an  open 
stormwater drain, any building, solid fence, or car park on the allotment should, 
wherever practical, be setback a minimum 1.5 metres from that boundary.  The 
setback distance must be: 

(a) 

treated with hedging or climbing vines to screen the building, solid fence, 
or  car  park  when  viewed  from  the  railway  corridor  or  open  stormwater 
drain; and 

(b) 

the hedging or climbing vines must be planted prior to the completion of 
the development using a minimum 300mm pot size; and 

(c) 

the planter bed area must incorporate a commercial grade, sub–surface, 
automatic, self–timed irrigation system; and 

(d) 

the  allotment  must  be  fenced  along  the  boundary  using  a  minimum  2 
metre high chain–wire fence; and 

(e) 

the  fence  provides  an  appropriate  access  point  to  maintain  the 
landscaping within the setback area; and 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(f)  where a car park adjoins the boundary, hedging or climbing vines must 
also  be  planted  along  the  sides  of  any  building  or  solid  fence  on  the 
allotment that face the railway corridor or open stormwater drain. 

If a setback for landscaping under this clause is impractical, other means to 
avoid  graffiti  must  be  employed  that  satisfies  Council’s  graffiti  minimisation 
strategy. 

General 

3.18  Council must take into consideration the following matters for development in 

the industrial zones: 

(a)  whether  the  proposed  development  will  provide  adequate  off-street 
parking, relative to the demand for parking likely to be generated; 

(b)  whether the site of the proposed development will be suitably landscaped, 

particularly between any buildings and the street alignment; 

(c)  whether the proposed development will contribute to the maintenance or 

improvement of the character and appearance of the locality; 

(d)  whether access to the proposed development will be available by means 
other than a residential street but, if no other means of practical access is 
available, the consent authority must have regard to a written statement 
that:  

(i) 

illustrates that no alternative access is available otherwise than by 
means of a residential street; and 

(ii)  demonstrates  that  consideration  has  been  given  to  the  effect  of 
traffic generated from the site and the likely impact on surrounding 
residential areas; and 

(iii) 

identifies  appropriate  traffic  management  schemes  which  would 
mitigate  potential  impacts  of  the  traffic  generated  from  the 
development on any residential environment; 

(e)  whether goods, plant, equipment and other material used in carrying out 

the proposed development will be suitably stored or screened; 

(f)  whether the proposed development will detract from the amenity of any 

residential area in the vicinity; and 

(g)  whether  the  proposed  development  adopts  energy  efficiency  and 
resource conservation measures related to its design, construction and 
operation. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Vehicle body repair workshops 

3.19  Council must not grant consent to development for the purpose of vehicle body 
repair  workshops  if  the  land  adjoins  land  within  a  residential  zone,  unless 
appropriate  arrangements  are  made  to  store  all  vehicles  awaiting  or 
undergoing  repair,  awaiting  collection,  or  otherwise  involved  with  the 
development on the site of the proposed development, and they will be stored 
either: 

(a)  within a building, or 

(b)  within a suitably screened area. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 4–ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  have  development  that  minimises  pollution  and  environmental  risk,  and 

enhance ecological values. 

(b)  To  have  development  that  provides  adequate  amenity  to  people  who  work  in 

and visit the local area. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Acoustic privacy 

4.1  Development must: 

(a)  consider the Industrial Noise Policy and the acoustic amenity of adjoining 

residential zoned land; and 

(b)  may  require  adequate  soundproofing  to  any  machinery  or  activity  that  is 

considered to create a noise nuisance. 

Pollution control 

4.2  Development  must  adequately  control  any  fumes,  odour  emissions,  and 
potential  water  pollutants  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of  the relevant 
public authority. 

Open space 

4.3  Development must provide a landscaped area along the primary and secondary 
road frontages of an allotment in accordance with the following minimum widths: 

Area of allotment 

Allotments 
adjoining a state or 
regional road 

Allotments not 
adjoining a state or 
regional road 

Allotments not 
adjoining a state or 
regional road 

Minimum width for 
landscaped area 

Less than 600m2 
600m2–999m2 
1,000m2–1,999m2 

2.5 metres 
3.5 metres 
4.5 metres 

Minimum width for 
landscaped area to 
the primary road 
frontage 
2.5 metres 
3.5 metres 
4.5 metres 

Minimum width for 
landscaped area to 
secondary road 
frontage 
2.5 metres 
3 metres 
3 metres 

2,000m2–3,999m2 

6 metres 

6 metres 

3 metres 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Greater than 
4,000m2 

10 metres 

10 metres 

3 metres 

Despite  this  clause,  Council  may  vary  the  minimum  setback  provided  the 
development  complements  a  high  quality  landscaped  image  of  neighbouring 
development or the desired future character of the area. 

4.4  Where development provides a landscaped area, the development should also 
provide employee amenities that utilises or has access to the landscaped area.  
The  landscaped  area  should  include  a  combination  of  grass,  plantings, 
pavement,  shade,  and  seating  to  allow  employees  to  engage  in  a  pleasant 
working environment. 

4.5  Development must: 

(a) 

retain and protect any existing trees identified by Council on an allotment 
and adjoining allotments; and 

(b)  must not change the natural ground level within 3 metres of the base of the 

trunk or within the dripline, whichever is the greatest. 

4.6  Development with a primary road frontage of 5 metres or more must provide at 
least 1 street tree per 5 metres of primary road frontage.  Council may vary this 
requirement if a street tree already exists in good condition or site constraints 
limit their inclusion. 

4.7  Development must plant trees in the landscaped area at a minimum rate of 1 
canopy tree per 30m2 of the landscaped area.  The canopy tree must be capable 
of achieving a mature height greater than 5 metres. 

4.8  Where development proposes an outdoor car park with 20 or more car parking 
spaces, the car park design must include at least 1 tree per 5 car parking spaces 
to the following specifications: 

(a)  a tree must be a single trunk species to allow a minimum visibility clearance 

of 1.5 metres measured above natural ground level; and 

(b)  a tree must be planted in an island bed that is a minimum 2 metres in width 

and 4 metres in length. 

SECTION 5–ANCILLARY DEVELOPMENT 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Objectives 

The objective is: 

(a)  To  have  ancillary  development  that unifies the  development  appearance,  and 
achieves  good  urban  design  in  terms  of  architectural  treatment  and  visual 
amenity. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objective are: 

Front fences 

5.1  The maximum fence height for front fences is 1.8 metres. 

5.2  The external appearance of front fences along the front boundary of allotments 

must ensure: 

(a) 

(b) 

the  section  of  the  front  fence  that  comprises  solid  construction  (not 
including pillars) does not exceed a fence height of 1 metre above ground 
level (existing); and 

the remaining height of the front fence comprises open style construction 
such as spaced timber pickets or wrought iron that enhance and unify the 
building design. 

Despite this clause, the solid construction of a fence behind the front building 
line of dwelling houses and dual occupancies on corner allotments may achieve 
a fence height up to 1.8 metres. 

5.3  Council does not allow the following types of front fences: 

(a)  chain wire, metal sheeting, brushwood, and electric fences; and 

(b)  noise attenuation walls. 

Business and building identification signs 

5.4  Development  is  limited  to  one  pylon  sign  for  each  allotment  boundary  that 

adjoins a classified road, and must ensure: 

(a) 

the sign is predominantly rectangular in shape with a vertical proportion; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b) 

the envelope of the sign is 4 metres or 9 metres in height (to encourage 
two consistent heights rather than a variety of heights) and a maximum 2 
metres in width; and 

(c) 

the  sign  only  identifies  the  businesses  on  the  allotment  and  the  street 
number to assist customers and visitors. 

5.5 

In addition to clause 5.4, Council may allow development to have other business 
or building identification signs provided: 

(a) 

the total permissible area of all signs must not exceed 1.1 square metres 
per 3 metres of street frontage; and 

(b)  signs will not be permitted nearer to the street alignment than one third of 
the prescribed building line, and where permitted between the building line 
and the street must not exceed two thirds of what is normally permitted on 
or behind the building line; and 

(c)  signs are suitably integrated with the architectural style of the building. 

5.6  Council does not allow the following signs: 

(a) 

flashing  signs,  flashing  lights,  signs  which  incorporate  devices  which 
change colour, a sign where movement can be recognised by a passing 
motorist; 

(b)  signs  extending  over  street  boundaries,  other  than  those  permitted  in 
conjunction with shops, or the like, where such buildings are erected on the 
street alignment; 

(c)  any sign that would adversely affect existing traffic lights; 

(d)  any sign that is not permanently fixed to the site; 

(e)  any sign made of canvas, calico or the like.  Council may grant a limited 
approval for a maximum period of 1 month, provided the sign complies with 
relevant legislation; 

(f) 

any under awning sign in excess of 2.5 metres x 0.4 metre; and 

(g)  signs at a lower level than 2.6 metres over the footway. 

5.7  Business or building identification signs that are painted or attached to a building 
must  not  screen  windows  and  other  significant  architectural  features  of  the 
building. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Food premises 

5.8  The design, construction, and operation of a food premises must comply with: 

(a)  Food Act 2003; 

(b)  Food Regulation 2010; 

(c)  FSANZ Food Standards Code; and 

(d)  AS 4674:2004 Design, Construction, and Fitout of Food Premises. 

Storage areas 

5.9 

The  storage  and  use  of  hazardous  materials  must  comply  with  the 
requirements of WorkCover NSW and other relevant public authorities. 

5.10  The  storage  and  use  of  dangerous  goods  must  comply  with  the  Dangerous 
Goods (Road and Rail Transport) Act 2008 and its regulations, and any other 
requirements of WorkCover NSW. 

Waste and storage areas 

5.11  Development must provide appropriate storage areas or waste storage areas 

for: 

(a)  waste, goods, and materials; and 

(b)  any above ground fuel tanks, liquid fuel stores, chemical storage areas, 

and the like. 

5.12  The siting and design of waste storage areas must ensure the room: 

(a) 

is not visible to the street and public open spaces; 

(b)  avoids  any  impact  on  the  amenity  of  adjoining  land  within  a  residential 

zone; 

(c) 

the  floor  is  constructed  using  an  impervious  material  and  the  walls  are 
finished in a non–absorbent surface; 

(d) 

the floor is graded to a waste drain connected to the sewer system; 

(e)  a water tap is provided inside the room to ensure the floor and walls are 

regularly cleaned; 

(f) 

the room is well lit and well ventilated; and 

(g)  where  required,  contains  a  special  containment  to  prevent  any  leaking 

pollutants. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Infrastructure 

5.13  The siting of a telecommunication facility, aerial, satellite dish, plant room, lift 

motor room, mechanical ventilation stack, exhaust stack, and the like must: 

(a) 

integrate  with  the  architectural  features  of  the  building  to  which  it  is 
attached; or 

(b)  be sufficiently screened when viewed from the street and neighbouring 

residential zoned land. 

5.14  External  lighting  to  industrial  development  must  give  consideration  to  the 

impact of glare on the amenity of adjoining residents. 

5.15  Council may require development to include public domain improvements to 
an  adjacent  footpath  in  accordance  with  a  design  approved  by  Council’s 
Landscape Architect. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 6–CHULLORA TECHNOLOGY PARK 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have development that is compatible to the site. 

(b)  To  have  items  of  natural  and  built  heritage  significance  on  the  site  identified, 

recorded and considered for possible retention. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Vegetation 

6.1  Development that affects the areas of vegetation (as shown in Figure 2) must be 
accompanied by a Plan of Management.  The Plan of Management must justify 
any  loss  of  significant  vegetation,  and  describe  any  management  practices 
required to retain the existing vegetation. 

Heritage items 

6.2  Development that proposes to demolish or remove any structures or buildings 
from  the  site  must  be  accompanied  by  advice  from  the  Railway  Heritage 
Committee.  The advice must address the removal or protection of the item, an 
account of its significance, and recommendations for preservation if applicable. 

Drainage 

6.3  Drainage  works  on  the  site  must  provide  an  upgraded  stormwater  system  to 
retard  flows  (such  that  peak  flows  from  the  development  are  no  greater  than 
pre–development  conditions),  and  to  collect  gross  pollutants  that  may  be 
detrimental to the Cooks River. 

6.4  Trunk drains outside of the public road reserves must be located in easements 

to the following requirements: 

(a)  works must be undertaken within the bunds of an allotment to alleviate (to 
the  fullest  extent  possible)  upstream  flooding  within  the  Greenacre 
residential area; 

(b)  as part of the piped system that drains to the trunk system, grease and oil 
interceptor traps must be incorporated within specific lot development; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 2: Map of the Chullora Technology Park. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(c)  piped stormwater systems must comply with Council’s standards, and must 
be designed in conjunction with the road system.  This will help provide an 
emergency  flow  path,  via  roads,  should  the  pits  exceed  its  capacity  or 
become blocked; and 

(d) 

the drainage system must comprise box culverts, open concrete channels, 
and  grass  line  channels.    Final  specifications  for  these  drainage  works 
must  relate  to  the  maximum  areas for  development,  whilst  providing  the 
necessary system to meet water quality criteria and discharge criteria. 

Roads 

6.5  Council accepts no responsibility for the funding of road works associated with 
the Chullora Technology Park or the maintenance of any private roads existing 
on a site. 

Business and building identification signs 

6.6  Signs in the Chullora Technology Park must: 

(a)  consist  of  a  corporate  sign  (giving  identity  to  a  structure  or  place),  a 
directory sign (at each entrance), or a unit sign (giving business name and 
contact details); 

(b) 

locate at pedestrian level to harmonise with the streetscape; and 

(c) 

limit a unit sign to one sign per unit with a maximum area of 3 metres x 1 
metre. 

SECTION 7–NOS. 52 AND 60 ROBERTS ROAD IN GREENACRE 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Desired character objective 

To have modern, architecturally attractive and functional high technology industry at 
the site known as Nos. 52–60 Roberts Road in Greenacre that is compatible with the 
prevailing suburban character and amenity of the neighbouring Zone R2 Low Density 
Residential. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the desired character objective are: 

Site cover 

7.1  The total area of building(s) on the ground floor level (including external walls) 

must not exceed: 

(a)  60% of the site area; and 

(b)  where  a  first  floor  space  is  provided,  part  of  such  floor  area  may  be 
cantilevered or supported to project beyond the front or side walls of the 
factory  buildings,  over  a  car  parking  area,  provided  that  such  projection 
must  not  exceed  10%  of  the  ground  floor  area  and  must  observe  any 
minimum building alignment as specified below. 

Storey limit 

7.2  The storey limit for development is 2 storeys. 

Setbacks 

7.3  The buildings must be built in a continuous form, to provide a linear barrier to 

the traffic noise generated from Roberts Road. 

7.4  The minimum setback to Roberts Road is 6 metres. 

Despite  this  clause,  Council  will  not  consent  to  a  development  application 
involving a continuous 6 metre setback to Roberts Road.  Building siting also will 
need to accommodate servicing, access, parking and landscaping requirements. 

7.5  The minimum setback to the western boundary is 3 metres. 

7.6  The minimum setback to Rebecca Road and Lawford Street is 5.5 metres. 

7.7 

In the case of Lot 1 where the site adjoins land used for commercial purposes 
(service station), a zero setback is permissible. 

Figure 3: Site known as Nos. 52–60 Roberts Road in Greenacre. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Vehicle access and off–street parking 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

7.8  No direct vehicle access must be provided to or from Roberts Road. 

7.9  Car parking must be provided at the rate of 1 car parking space per 60m2 for 
high technology industry floor space and 1 space per 60m2 for mezzanine floor 
space where mezzanine floor space does not exceed 20% of gross floor area 
of the unit.  Mezzanine floor space exceeding 20% of gross floor area will be 
assessed at a rate of 1 car space per 40m2 of gross floor area. 

7.10  Where parking is provided in a basement, the design must demonstrate that 
visitor  parking  is  freely  available  and  accessible  during  business  operating 
hours. 

7.11  No  high  walls  or  landscaping  must  be  provided  at  the  Rebecca  Road  and 

Roberts Road intersection that impede sight distances at this intersection. 

7.12  The  width  of  the  road  reserve  in  Rebecca  Road  and  the  size  of  the  splay 
corners  at  the  Rebecca  Road  and  Roberts  Road  intersection  must  be 
increased in size to the satisfaction of Council's Traffic Engineer. 

Commercial vehicle access, loading and circulation 

7.13  All units are to be provided with a designated loading bay and manoeuvring 
area to accommodate a small rigid truck pursuant to the design requirements 
contained within Australian Standard 2890.2–Commercial Vehicle Facilities. 

7.14  Access and manoeuvring areas must be designed so that vehicles can enter 

and exit the site in a forward direction. 

Open space 

7.15  The  minimum  landscape  setback  to  Roberts  Road  is  2  metres.    This 

landscaped area is to be densely planted with small native trees and shrubs. 

7.16  The area within the building setback to the western boundary, Rebecca Road 

and Lawford Street must be predominantly landscaped. 

7.17  Landscaping along the western boundary of the site is to comprise at least 1 
tree  every  6  metres.    The  selected  species  should  be  native  (and  therefore 
non–deciduous) and should achieve a mature height of at least 8 metres. 

Building design 

7.18  Building  materials  should  provide  a  mix  of  masonry  and  glass.  Glazed 
elements  should  be  massed  together  in  locations  appropriate  to  building 
symmetry and rhythm.  Note: The reflectivity index of glazed components must 
not exceed 20%. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

7.19  The  design  should  provide  a  degree  of  modulation  and  articulation  to  the 
building alignment to establish angles and interest in building line and roof form 
when viewed from varying vantage points. 

7.20  The  building  must  provide  openings  and  appropriate  fenestration  to  all  road 
frontages  to  ensure  a  satisfactory  presentation  to  all  areas  of  the  public 
domain. 

7.21  Colours of masonry materials should generally be of muted block colours with 
minimal variation.  If variation in colour is proposed, it will be necessary for the 
overall  colour  scheme  to  ensure  that  individual  units  are  visually  connected 
subsequent to advertising signage and corporate logos of different colours and 
materials being fixed to the elevations. 

7.22  The  roof  form  of  the  development  should  be  punctuated  at  the  eastern 
elevation by one or more design features to break up the visual massing and 
length of the roof form. 

7.23  Fenestration detail should seek to be compatible with the modern design of the 
building.  The use of fixed or operable louvres to selected windows, awnings 
to define building entries and recessed balconies to mezzanine levels may be 
considered in the context of the overall design. 

Site contamination 

7.24  Prior  to  any  construction  occurring  on  the  land,  the  recommendations 
contained with the report prepared by EIA and titled “Report to Austar Australia 
Pty  Limited  on  Phase  1  Contamination  Report 
for  Proposed 
Commercial/Industrial  Development  at  60–69  Roberts  Road  in  Greenacre” 
dated April 2002, Ref: E16721FKRPT shall be fulfilled to Council’s satisfaction. 

7.25  Findings from all future site testing, analyses and validation shall be submitted 

to Council. 

Business and building identification signs 

7.26  Business  and  building  identification  signs  must  comply  with  the  following 

controls: 

(a)  1 building identification sign on each separate lot, describing the building 
as high technology industry.  Minimum or maximum dimensions for this 
sign are not specified, however the sign must present to Roberts Road. 
Size and positioning of the building identification sign must relate to the 
overall building form.  Details of these signs, including wording and layout 
are to be provided with the development application for the erection of the 
building. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Council will assess the suitability of the proposed signs on merit having 
regard  to  the  level  of  integration  with  the  proposed  elevations.    In 
undertaking this assessment, Council must be satisfied that the sign does 
not dominate the building elevation; 

(b)  1 business identification sign per proposed unit identifying the occupant 
of  a  particular  unit  being  in  the  form  of  a  name  plate  not  exceeding 
1200mm x 600mm; 

(c)  1  index  board at  the front of  the property  having  an  area  of  no  greater 

than 2.25m2; and 

(d)  no advertising of products or goods manufactured or stored on the site 
must  be  permitted  on  or  in  conjunction  with  the  proposed  use  of  any 
premises or the site. 

Acoustic privacy 

7.27  All development applications for the use of this land must be accompanied by 
suitable environmental reports demonstrating that the proposed use does not 
create any adverse environmental impact, including air, noise or odour impact 
on the surrounding residential area.  These reports should make reference to 
the  relevant  industry  guidelines,  including  the  requirements  of  the  Industrial 
Noise Policy and the Environmental Criteria for Road Traffic Noise. 

7.28  All  noise  generating  equipment,  including  roof  level  dust  collectors,  air 
conditioning and car park ventilation unit must be acoustically treated to ensure 
this equipment complies with the Industrial Noise Policy.  This equipment must 
be sited on the Roberts Road side of the development. 

7.29  The use of the premises must be restricted to the following hours of operation: 

(a)  7.00am to 7.00pm Monday to Friday; 

(b)  7.00am to 12noon Saturday; with 

(c)  no work on Sundays and Public Holidays. 

Storage 

7.30  All storage associated with the use of buildings erected on the sites is to take 
place wholly within the confines of the building.  Council will not consent to the 
use of side or rear setback areas for storage purposes. 

APPENDICES 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

26 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 1–State and regional roads in the City of Bankstown 

ROAD 

FROM 

TO 

Alfords Point Road 
Boronia Road 
Brunker Road 
Canterbury Road 
Davies Road 
Fairford Road  
Henry Lawson Drive 
Hume Highway 
Juno Parade 
Milperra Road 
Newbridge Road 
Punchbowl Road 
Roberts Road 
Rookwood Road 
Stacey Street 
Stacey Street 
The River Road 
M5 Motorway 
Wiley Avenue 
Wiley Avenue 
Woodville Road 
Alma Road 
Ashford Avenue 
Auburn Road 
Beaconsfield Street 
Birdwood Road 
Brandon Avenue 
Brunker Road 
Bullecourt Avenue 
Bullecourt Avenue 
Carlingford Road 
Chapel Road 
Chapel Road 
Christina Road 
Edgar Street 
Faraday Road 
Ferrier Road 
Gibson Avenue 
Greenwood Ave 
Haig Avenue 
Hector Street 
Horsley Road 
Koala Road 
Macauley Avenue 

Davies Road 
Hume Highway 
Rookwood Road 
Milperra Road 
Fairford Road 
Stacey Street 
Hume Highway 
City Boundary 
Waterloo Road 
Newbridge Road 
City Boundary 
Canterbury Road 
Hume Highway 
Hume Highway 
Rookwood Road 
Fairford Road 
Canterbury Road 
City Boundary 
Roberts Road 
Roberts Road 
Hume Highway 
Davies Road 
Bullecourt Avenue 
Water Pipeline 
The River Road 
Owen Road 
Chapel Road 
Rookwood Road 
Horsley Road 
Horsley Road 
Water Pipeline 
Canterbury Road 
Rickard Road 
Waldron Road 
Milperra Road 
Alma Road 
Railway Bridge 
Watson Road 
Brandon Avenue 
Georges Crescent 
Hume Highway 
Beaconsfield Street 
Wattle Street 
Stacey Street 

City Boundary 
Waterloo Road 
Hume Highway 
Punchbowl Road 
Alfords Point Road 
Davies Road 
City Boundary 
City Boundary 
Punchbowl Road 
Canterbury Road 
Milperra Road 
City Boundary 
Wiley Avenue 
City Boundary 
Fairford Road 
Canterbury Road 
M5 Motorway 
City Boundary 
Koala Road 
Punchbowl Road 
City Boundary 
Faraday Road 
Milperra Road 
Hume Highway 
Horsley Road 
Georges Crescent 
Greenwood Ave 
Allder Street 
Ashford Avenue 
Henry Lawson Drive 
Waldron Road 
Brandon Avenue 
Hume Highway 
River Avenue 
Hume Highway 
Uranus Road 
Auburn Road 
Canterbury Road 
Marion Street 
Henry Lawson Drive 
Water Pipeline 
Bullecourt Avenue 
Wiley Avenue 
Chapel Road 

ROAD 

FROM 

TO 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Marion Street 
Marion Street 
Meredith Street 
Miller Road 
Owen Road 
Park Road 
Queen Street 
Rickard Road 
Rickard Road 
Roberts Road 
Sphinx Avenue 
The River Road 
Tower Street 
Uranus Road 
Waldron Road 
Waterloo Road 
Watson Road 
Wattle Street 
Wellington Road 
Woods Road 

Greenwood Avenue 
Owen Road 
Marion Street 
Hume Highway 
Marion Street 
Braesmere Road 
Beaconsfield Street 
Stacey Street 
Meredith Street 
Wiley Avenue 
Gibson Avenue 
Henry Lawson Drive 
The River Road 
Faraday Road 
Carlingford Road 
Wattle Street 
Fairford Road 
Koala Road 
Auburn Road 
Wellington Road 

Meredith Street 
MacLaurin Avenue 
Rickard Road 
Waldron Road 
Birdwood Road 
Maclaurin Avenue 
Milperra Road 
Chapel Road 
Chapel Road 
Wattle Street 
The River Road 
M5 Motorway 
Braesmere Road 
The River Road 
Christina Road 
Hume Highway 
Gibson Avenue 
Stacey Street 
Woods Road 
Carlingford Road 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B3 
March 2015 (Amended July 2015) 

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown 
Development 
Control 
Plan 2015 

PART B4 

SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT  

 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

CONTENTS 

Section 1 

Introduction   

Section 2  Water Conservation Controls 

Section 3 

Energy Minimisation Controls 

3 

6 

8 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 1–INTRODUCTION 

Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015 is Council's principal planning document 
to  regulate  effective  and  orderly  development  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.    The  LEP 
provides  objectives,  zones  and  development  standards  such  as  lot  sizes  and  floor 
space ratios. 

Part  B4  of  Bankstown  Development  Control  Plan  2015  supplements  the  LEP  by 
providing  additional  objectives  and  development  controls  for  water  and  energy 
efficiency in development in the City of Bankstown. 

Part  B4  applies  to  buildings  with  a  classification  of  Class  5  to  Class  9  under  the 
Building Code of Australia. 

Objectives 

The objectives of Part B4 of this DCP are: 

(a)  To  have  the  design  and  operation  of  development  incorporate  water 

conservation measures. 

(b)  To have the design and operation of development incorporate energy efficient 

practices. 

Part  B4  aims  to  achieve  these  objectives  by  specifying  development  controls  for 
water  conservation  and  energy  efficiency.    Compliance  with  these  controls  will  be 
verified either when the application for a compliance certificate is being considered, 
or  in  the  case  of  controls  that  apply  to  larger  development  (those  above  5,000m2) 
through information provided with the development application and by the inclusion 
of relevant conditions of consent. 

Developments affected by Part B4 

Part B4 of this DCP specifies development controls for development.  The controls 
may apply in the following situations: 

(a)  new proposals requiring a development application; 

(b)  extensions to all existing development that greater than or equal to 5,000m2 of 

gross floor area; or 

(c)  extensions  to  existing  development  below  5,000m2  of  gross  floor  area  where 
the development seeks to expand by an amount of 50% or more of the existing 
floor area. 

Where extensions to existing uses are subject to Part B4, the controls apply only to 
that part of the building being extended. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

In  the  case  of  proposals  for  mixed  residential  and  commercial  development  and 
mixed commercial and industrial development, controls for the relevant components 
apply  (i.e.  commercial  controls  apply  to  the  commercial  component,  and  the 
industrial controls for the industrial component). 

For  the  purposes  of  Part  B4,  retail  uses  have  generally  been  included  in  the  term 
“commercial  development”,  although  there  are  some  instances  where  separate 
controls have been specified for retail and commercial uses.  Elsewhere in Part B4, 
it  should  be  assumed  that  the  same  controls  apply  to  retail  and  commercial  uses 
unless stated otherwise. 

Part B4 does not apply to proposals involving a change of use. 

Summary of development controls 

Table  1  summarises  the  development  controls  that  are  included  in  Part  B4  of  this 
DCP (refer to sections 2 and 3 of Part B4 for the exact requirements of the controls). 

Table 1: Summary of water conservation and energy minimisation controls. 

Controls that apply 
Water Conservation 
No  Requirement 
W1  Water efficient 

fixtures must be 
installed 

Type of development 

New development where 
floor area is below 
5,000m2  
OR 
An extension to an 
existing building below 
5,000m2 where the 
extension involves 50% 
or more of the existing 
floor area 

Energy Conservation 
No  Requirement 
E1 

E2 

E4 

Building must be 
designed to 
enhance energy 
efficiency 
AND 
Energy efficient  
hot water systems, 
air conditioners and 
lighting must be 
installed 
OR 
Building to achieve 
rating of at least 4 
stars under the 
SEDA Greenhouse 
Rating Scheme 
(alternative for new 
commercial 
development) 

Refer to text for 
advice on how to 
comply 

Refer to text for 
advice on how to 
comply 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Extension or new 
development where floor 
area equals or exceeds 
5,000m2 

WI 

W2 

Water efficient 
fixtures must be 
installed 
AND 
A site water 
management plan 
must be prepared 

E3 

E4 

An energy 
performance report 
must be prepared 
OR 
Building to achieve 
rating of 4 stars or 
better under the 
SEDA Greenhouse 
Rating Scheme 
(alternative 
requirement for new 
commercial 
development) 

Refer to text for 
advice on how to 
comply 

Refer to text for 
advice on how to 
comply 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 2–WATER CONSERVATION CONTROLS 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have more sustainable use of water in development by: 

(i) 

increasing the efficiency of mains supply water use; and 

(ii)  providing  for  on  site  collection  and  re  use  of  rainwater,  grey  water  and 

stormwater runoff. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

2.1  Proposals for new development with a gross floor area less than 5,000m2 and 
proposals  for  extensions  to  existing  developments  below  5,000m2  seeking  to 
expand  by  50%  or  more  of  the  existing  floor  area  must  comply  with 
Requirement W1. 

2.2  Proposals for new development or extensions with a floor area greater than or 
equal to 5,000m2 of gross floor area must comply with Requirements W1 and 
W2. 

Requirement W1: Use of water efficient fixtures 

The  following  controls  are  mandatory  and  will  be  implemented  by  way  of 
conditions  of  consent  which  will  be  verified  when  the  application  for  a 
compliance certificate is being considered. 

All taps, showerheads, toilet suites (cisterns, urinals) used in the development must 
be  rated  to  at  least  4  stars  under  the  National  Water  Efficient  Labelling  and 
Standards (WELS) Scheme (refer below). 

National water conservation rating and labelling scheme 

The Water Efficient Labelling and Standards (WELS) Scheme is administered by the 
NSW  and  Australian  Government  and  is  designed  to  make  more  efficient  use  of 
Australia’s potable water supply. 

At  present,  the  full  6  star  rated  items  are  not  readily  available  across  all  fixtures. 
However for basin tap ware the full 6 star rated item is available.  The following star 
ratings are required for compliance with this DCP. 

(a)  shower heads 3 stars–8 litres or less per minute; 

(b)  basins Taps 6 stars–4.5 litres or less per minute 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(c) 

toilet cisterns 4 stars–4 litres or less per flush. 

A  comprehensive  list  of  products  that  meet  the  above  water  consumption 
requirements  of  this  DCP  can  be  viewed  at  the  Australian  Government  website  at 
www.waterrating.gov.au. 

Requirement W2: Site water management plan 

All  proposals  with  an  intended  gross  floor  area  equal  to  or  greater  than  5,000m2 
(whether  multi  use  or  single  use)  must  submit  with  the  development  application,  a 
site  water  management  plan  that  investigates  and  where  feasible  provides  for  the 
integrated management and use of water for the proposed development. 

Matters  to  be  addressed  in  the  water  management  plan  include  proposals  for 
reducing  mains  water  supply  use  by  using  other  water  sources  including  the 
following: 

(a)  preparation  of  an  integrated  water  collection  and  recycling  system  for  the 
capturing  and  recycling  of  rainwater.  The  system  should  preferably  be 
integrated  with  the  mains  supply  water  system  and  should  provide  for  the 
reuse  of  captured  water  in  the  development.  Appropriate  uses  for  recycled 
water would include car washing, dust control, watering of gardens, flushing of 
toilets and similar uses; 

(b)  proposals for capturing and reusing grey  water on the site.  Appropriate uses 
for  recycled  water  would  include  car  washing,  dust  control,  watering  of 
gardens,  flushing  of  toilets  and  similar  uses  (refer  to  Appendix  1  for  more 
information on grey water reuse); 

(c)  proposals  for  capturing  and  reusing  stormwater  from  the  site.    The  need  for 

any treatment of stormwater prior to reuse should be considered; 

(d)  proposals  (where  feasible)  of  treating  and  reusing  any  process  water 

generated by the development; and 

(e)  proposals for controlling the quality of waste water that is to be disposed of. 

Notes: 

The  water  management  plan  must  be  submitted  with  the  development  application 
and will be considered in the assessment of the application. 

The relevant findings of the site water management plan must be incorporated into 
the proposed development.  Conditions of consent will be included to implement this 
requirement. 

Appendix 1 includes more information in relation to this requirement. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 3–ENERGY MINIMISATION CONTROLS 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  have  energy  efficiency  in  the  design  and  operation  of  development 

proposals.  This is done by: 

(i) 

promoting the use of energy efficient principles in the design of a facility; 
and 

(ii)  ensuring  the  ongoing  operations  of  the  facility  incorporates  energy 

minimisation measures. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

3.1  Proposals  for  new  development  where  the  total  gross  floor  area  is  below 
5,000m2;  and  extensions  to  existing  uses  below  5,000m2  that  involve  an 
increase  in  50%  or  more  of  the  existing  gross  floor  area  must  comply  with 
Requirements E1 and E2. 

3.2  Proposals for new development, or extensions where the total gross floor area 

equals or exceeds 5,000m2 must comply with Requirement E3. 

3.3  Commercial development (either above or below 5,000m2) elect to comply with 
Requirement  E4  as  an  alternative  to  Requirement  E1  and  E2,  or  E3  as 
applicable. 

Requirement E1: Energy efficient building design 

The  following  requirements  are  mandatory  and  will  be  implemented  by  way  of 
conditions  of  consent  which  will  be  verified  when  the  application  for  a  compliance 
certificate is being considered. 

The following energy efficiency measures are mandatory, and must be incorporated 
into the building design: 

(a)  Measures to maximise solar access and natural lighting.  The building should 
be designed and oriented to maximise solar access and natural lighting.  This 
should be done by: 

(i) 

orientating  the  building  so  that  its  longest  side  is  on  the  east  west  axis 
(where possible); 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(ii)  maximising  the  number  of  windows  on  the  northern  face  of  the  building 
and  minimising  glazed  areas  on  the  eastern  and  western  walls  of  the 
building (i.e. providing for most of the glazed areas on the northern face 
of the building); 

(iii)  warehouses must be fitted with skylights to 10% of the roof area; and 

(iv)  consider  and  include  where  feasible  the  following  features:  skylights, 

clerestory windows, light wells, light tubes, atriums and similar features. 

(b)  Measures  to  maximise  natural  heating,  cooling  and  ventilation.    The  building 
should be  designed  to  minimise  the need for  mechanical  heating and  cooling 
(air conditioning).  This must be done by: 

(i) 

ensuring that all windows are rated to at least four (4) heating stars under 
the  Australian  Windows  Councils  Windows  Energy  Rating  System 
(windows  must  also  satisfy  Australian  Standard  2047  for  air  infiltration 
performance); 

(ii) 

incorporating  external  shading  devices  (e.g.  overhangs  or  shutters)  into 
the design of the building for all west facing windows; 

(iii)  consider  and  incorporate  where  possible  other  features  to  maximise 
natural  ventilation,  including:  use  of  openable  windows,  grills  or  vents, 
use  of  high  level  ventilation  to  release  warm  air  as  it  rises,  use  of  fans 
and the use of ridge vents and cowlings on the roof; and 

(iv) 

include  appropriate  insulation.  Insulation  should  be  provided  that  meets 
the following standards: 
Walls: R = 1.5 or greater; 
Floors: R = 1.0 or greater; 
Roof /Ceiling: R = 2.5 or greater. 

Requirement  E2:  Energy  efficient  hot  water  systems,  air–conditioning  and 
lighting 

The  following  requirements  are  mandatory  and  will  be  implemented  by  way  of 
conditions  of  consent  which  will  be  verified  when  the  application  for  a  compliance 
certificate is being considered. 

Energy efficient hot water systems 

The development must incorporate a hot water heating system that is energy rated 
to at least 4 stars. The preferred system is either a gas boosted solar system, or a 
5–star gas system, with appropriate insulation to the tank and pipes (refer to box for 
a list of different types of water heaters that have a rating of 4 stars or higher). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SEDA rating of hot water heating in terms of energy efficiency 

Source of Energy 

Storage 

Solar Gas Boost (solar 
contribution.50%) 
Gas 

Storage 

Instantaneous 

Gas–Storage 

High Efficiency 

Electric–Storage 

Heat Pump 

Gas–Storage 

Low Efficiency 

Solar Electric Boost (solar 
contribution> 50%). 
Solar Electric Boost (solar 
contribution> 50%). 

Continuous 

OP2 

Rating 

5 stars 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

Note 1: The most energy efficient hot water heating system is a gas boosted solar 
system.  A 5 star gas system is almost as energy efficient and probably less costly 
to install.  In general, gas systems are more energy efficient than electric and also 
compare well with electricity systems in terms of price. 

Note 2: The efficiency of a water heating system can be improved by positioning it 
close to main areas of use, such as the kitchen or the bathroom.  Efficiency can also 
be  improved  by  insulating  the  pipes  and  the  tanks  and  including  thermostatic 
controls. 

Energy efficient air conditioning 

(a)  Where  mechanical  heating  and  cooling  (i.e.  air  conditioning)  is  required, 

energy efficient systems must be used.  Options include: 

(i)  SEDA  rated  air  conditioners  (note:  the  SEDA  rating  scheme  for  air 
conditioners  only  applies  to  those  up  to  7.5kW.  These  are  mainly 
appropriate for domestic and household use. However those uses that do 
use  air  conditioners  of  this  capacity  should  select  a  SEDA  rated 
appliance); or 

(ii)  where  systems  that  exceed  7.5kW  power  output  are  required,  air 
conditioning systems that comply with the Minimum Energy Performance 
Requirements in Australian Standard 3823.2 should be selected. 

(b)  Air–conditioning  in  new  hotels  should  operate  on  a  demand  or  room 

occupational basis only. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Energy efficient lighting and lighting control systems 

(a)  Energy  efficient  lighting  must  be  used  in  the  development.    The  following 
lighting options should be specifically considered and incorporated unless they 
are not suitable for the development: 

(i) 

use  of  compact  fluorescent  or  tubular  fluorescent  lamps,  instead  of 
standard incandescent bulbs; 

(ii)  use of triphosphor fluorescent instead of halophosphor fluorescent lights; 

(iii)  use of electronic ballast instead of magnetic ballasts in fluorescent lights; 

(iv)  use of compact fluorescent or low voltage tungsten halogen lights instead 

of tungsten spotlights; 

(v)  use  of  solar  powered  or  metal  halide  or  sodium  discharge  lamps  for 

outside areas such as car parks; 

(vi) 

(for industrial applications) use of high pressure sodium lamps instead of 
mercury vapour lamps for high intensity discharge lighting; 

(vii)  use of energy efficient starters. 

(b)  Lighting  control  systems  should  be  developed  having  regard  to  energy 
efficiency.    The  following  matters  should  be  considered  and  incorporated 
unless found not to be feasible: 

(i) 

designing  lighting  systems  to match  the  level  of  lighting  that  is  required; 
(for example,  warehouses  with  skylights  installed  in  the  roof  should  also 
link the lighting to photoelectric dimming devices); 

(ii)  use  of  lighting  controls  to  ensure  that  lights  are  used  only  where  and 
when  they  are  needed.  For  example,  timed  switches  or  occupancy 
detectors in areas with only sporadic uses, and that switch off after hours; 

(iii)  use of reduced voltage lighting systems. 

Requirement E3: Submission of energy  performance report (developments in 
excess of 5,000m2) 

All  proposals  for  new  development  and  extensions  to  existing  uses  for  buildings 
greater  than or  equal  to  5,000m2  must  submit  with  the  development  application  an 
Energy  Performance  Report  (EPR)  prepared  by  a  suitably  qualified  energy 
consultant.  The  EPR  should  propose  a  strategy  for  ensuring  that  the  development 
minimises its energy use.  It should include the following: 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(a)  Design  issues:    The  EPR  should  demonstrate  how  the  building  has  been 
designed  to  minimise  energy  use.    This  must  address  all  of  the  design 
principles  included  in  the  Design  Guidelines  for  Development  (refer  to 
Appendix 2). 

A  copy  of  these  Design  Guidelines  must  be  obtained  from  Council,  and  the 
Design  Report  that  is  required  to  satisfy  Requirement  E3  should  address  the 
objectives of each of the Design Elements specified in the Design Guidelines. 

(b)  Lighting,  air  conditioning  and  hot  water:    The  EPR  should  also  address  the 
energy efficient lighting, air conditioning and hot water requirement specified in 
Requirement E2 above. 

(c)  Operational energy:  The EPR should consider the energy requirements for the 
operation of the proposed facility and show how energy minimisation measures 
will be incorporated.  This should include: 

(i) 

(ii) 

estimate  the  intended  energy  use  of  the  facility  (including  the  intended 
use  where  possible)  in  MJ/square  metre  per  annum,  and  review  this 
projected  energy  use  against  existing  industry  benchmarks  and  best 
practice guidelines where these are available; 

results  of  consultation  with  SEDA  and  their  publication  entitled  “The 
Energy Smart Toolbox–Energy Savings Manual”. The EPR should outline 
how the comments of SEDA (and the publication referred to above) have 
been considered for inclusion in the development; 

(iii)  outline  other  steps  that  have  been  taken  to  minimise  energy  use  in  the 
operation  of  the  building/facility.  This  should  (inter  alia)  identify  how 
energy  efficient  plant  and  equipment  has  been  incorporated  in  the 
development; and 

(iv)  ongoing energy management of the facility. The EPR should consider the 

need for an energy management system for the building/facility. 

Requirement E4: Greenhouse rating of new commercial buildings (alternative 
requirement to E1, E2 or E3 for new commercial buildings) 

As  an  alternative  to  complying  with  Requirement  E1  and  E2  (development  below 
5,000m2)  or  Requirement  E3  (development  above  5,000m2),  proposals  for  new 
commercial  development  can  elect  to  have  the  proposed  building  Greenhouse 
Rated  under  the  Sustainable  Energy  Development  Authority’s  Greenhouse  Rating 
Scheme. 

The  applicant  will  then  agree  to  enter  a  commitment  based  agreement  under  the 
Scheme to obtain a rating of 4 stars or better for the operation of the building.  This 
will then be made a condition of development consent and subject to monitoring. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

For development involving a mixed commercial industrial development that elect to 
have  their  building  rated  under  this  scheme,  the  four  star  rating  needs  to  be 
obtained  for  the  floor  area  that  is  occupied  by  the  commercial  component  (note: 
industrial 
there 
developments). 

is  no  Greenhouse  Rating  Scheme  presently  operating 

for 

The SEDA greenhouse rating scheme 

Commercial  buildings  in  Australia  generate  around  35  million  tonnes  of  CO2  as  a 
result of the energy they consume.  These emissions are expected to almost double 
by 2010.  The Building Greenhouse Rating Scheme is a program for office buildings, 
designed to identify the potential of a building to reduce greenhouse emissions. 

The  ratings  incorporate  a  “star”  system,  and  are  based  on  energy  related 
greenhouse gas emissions, adjusted to account for climate and how the building is 
used.  The more stars, the better the performance. 

The  star  rating  is  derived  from  the  actual  amount  of  energy  consumed  by  the 
building  in  a  year,  and  determining  the  buildings  “greenhouse  impact”.    A  4  star 
rating would indicate excellent energy performance due to design and management 
practices  or  high  efficiency  systems  and  equipment  and  low  greenhouse  intensive 
fuel supply. 

The scheme identifies the potential for reducing greenhouse emissions, for example, 
by identifying energy efficiency improvements (such as the installation of energy star 
office equipment), and the use of “Green Power”. 

Source:  Rating  the  Greenhouse  Performance  of  Commercial  Buildings  SEDA, 
September 1999. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1–Additional information about Requirements W2 and E3 

The  following  information  has  been  included  as  some  additional  background 
information about Requirements W2 and E3. 

Requirement W2: The preparation of a site water management plan 

The  site  water  management  plan  is  intended  to  ensure  that  large  developments 
consider the capture and reuse of water from rainwater, stormwater, grey water and 
process water.  In preparing the site water management plan the following matters 
should be considered: 

(a)  Rainwater capture devices 

In  preparing  the  site  water  management  plan,  it  may  be  recommended  that  water 
tanks (or other rainwater capture devices) be installed to provide for the capture and 
the  reuse  of  water.  In  installing  tanks  or  other  rainwater  capture  devices,  the 
following principles should be borne in mind: 

(i) 

plumbing  the  tanks  into  the  mains  water  supply  system:  it  is  far  more 
preferable  for  water  tanks  to  be  plumbed  into  the  system  and  water  piped 
directly  to  the  toilets  for  flushing,  rather  than  for  them  to  be  used  for  more 
passive uses such as garden watering; 

(ii)  plumbing  connections:  Sydney  Water  requires  that  tanks  and  similar  devices 
keep  their  water  entirely  separate  from  the  existing  water  supply  system.  A 
backflow prevention device will also need to be installed to ensure there is no 
direct  connection to  water mains  supply,  and  (for  tanks that  are  plumbed  into 
the system), a valve is needed to allow switching between the tank and mains 
supply water. Contact Sydney Water for further information; 

(iii) 

taps:  any  taps  from  these  devices  should  be  marked  so  as  to  prevent  use  of 
water that is collected being used for human consumption; 

(iv)  materials:  rainwater  tanks  can  be  made  from  galvanised  steel,  polyethylene, 
fibreglass, concrete or masonry, and can be designed in shape and colour to 
blend with building design; 

(v) 

location:  location  of  rainwater  capture  devices  should  be  done  so  as  to 
minimise their visual impact; 

(vi)  structure:  matters  to  be  considered  include:  ensuring  an  appropriate  support 
structure  and  foundation,  ensuring  child  proofing,  including  covering  and 
contaminant screens; 

(vii)  noise: any pumps installed in association with the tanks should comply with all 

relevant noise control standards; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(viii)  overflow:  any  overflow  water  should  be  piped  preferably  into  a  stormwater 
detention  pit  and  made  available  for  reuse.  It  may  be  possible  to  pipe  the 
overflow  into  the  stormwater  drainage  system.  It  should  not  be  piped  to  the 
sewerage system. 

Consideration should be given to the following documents in the design, installation, 
operation  and  maintenance  of  rainwater  tanks:  NSW  Ministry  of  Health  Guideline 
GL2007_009  titled  “Use  of  Rainwater  Tanks  where  a  Public  Supply  is  Available”; 
Enhealth  document  titled  “Guidance  on  the  Use  of  Rainwater  Tanks  2010”;  and 
Australian  Guidelines  for  Water  Recycling  “Managing  Health  and  Environmental 
Risks (Phase 2): Stormwater Harvesting and Reuse (July 2009)”.   

(b)  Grey water recycling 

The  following  matters  should  be  considered  when  considering  a  grey  water  reuse 
scheme: 

(i) 

grey water often requires separation and treatment before it can be reused; 

(ii)  all  applicants  should  consult  with  NSW  Health  (the  responsible  Government 
authority  on  grey  water  recycling,  and  ensure  that  any  comments  made  by 
NSW  Health  are  incorporated  into  the  site  water  management  plan  for  grey 
water reuse; 

(iii)  The  NSW  Health  website  (www.health.nsw.gov.au)  also  provides  useful 

information about grey water recycling. 

The reuse of grey water for non–potable purposes may need to be licensed by the 
NSW  Independent  Pricing  and  Regulatory  Tribunal  under  the  Water  Industry 
Competition  Act  2006  or  approved  by  Council  under  section  68  of  the  Local 
Government Act 1993. 

Consideration should be given to the following documents in the design, installation, 
operation  and  maintenance  of  grey  water  reuse  systems:  Australian  Guidelines for 
Water Recycling “Managing Health and Environmental Risks (Phase 1) 2006”; and 
NSW Department of Primary Industries: Office of Water “Interim NSW Guidelines for 
Management of Private Recycled Water Schemes”. 

(c)  Reuse of stormwater 

The reuse of stormwater for non–potable purposes may need to be licensed by the 
NSW  Independent  Pricing  and  Regulatory  Tribunal  under  the  Water  Industry 
Competition Act 2006. 

Consideration should be given to the following documents in the design, installation, 
operation  and  maintenance  of  grey  water  reuse  systems:  Australian  Guidelines for 
Water  Recycling  “Managing  Health  and  Environmental  Risks  (Phase  1)  2006  and 
“Managing  Health and  Environmental  Risks (Phase  2): Stormwater  Harvesting  and 
Reuse (July 2009)”. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Requirement E3: preparation of an energy performance report 

The  requirement  for  an  Energy  Performance  Report  (EPR)  has  been  included  for 
larger  development  to  ensure  that  they  address  the  issue  of  energy  use  on  an 
ongoing  basis,  from  the  planning  and  design  stages,  and  through  to  the  ongoing 
operation of the facility. 

The matters that will need to be addressed will depend upon the size and the nature 
of  the  operation.    Some  large  development  (such  as  warehouses)  could  have  a 
relatively  low  energy  requirement  in  comparison  to  some  industrial  processing 
operations.    In  such  cases,  the  EPR  could  be  relatively  brief.  Some  general 
guidance  concerning  the  compliance  with  this  requirement,  and  the  matters  that 
should be addressed in the EPR are shown below. 

Energy efficient design 

The  total  energy  use  of  a  building  can  be  significantly  affected  by  the  way  it  is 
designed. It has been estimated that careful attention to passive design can reduce 
the total energy consumption of a building by about 50%. The aim of passive design 
is  to  get  maximum  value  out  of  the  building  elements–making  the  building  itself, 
rather  than  additional  systems  do  the  work  of  keeping  the  occupants  comfortable. 
Good  passive  design  can  eliminate  or  substantially  reduce  the  load  on  heating, 
cooling  and  ventilation  systems,  thus  providing  savings  in  operational  energy  and 
reductions in greenhouse emissions. 

It is a requirement of Part B4 of this DCP that all development over 5,000m2 prepare 
a  Design  Report  that  explains  how  design  considerations  have  been  incorporated 
into  the  building  to enhance  its  energy  efficiency. To  assist  applicants  in preparing 
the  Design  Report,  Council  has  commissioned  the  preparation  of  a  set  of  Design 
Guidelines by the consulting firm Team DES. 

Appendix 2 contains a copy of these Design Guidelines, and the Design Report that 
is required to satisfy Requirement E3 should address the objectives of each of the 
Design Elements specified in the Design Guidelines. 

Operational energy 

Some uses will naturally use a significant amount of energy during their operation. 
The  EPR  should  look  for  opportunities  for  minimising  energy  use  during  the 
operation of the facility.  Matters that the EPR should address are as follows: 

(i) 

estimate of total energy use: the purpose of this is to help engender a proactive 
approach towards energy use during the operation of the development, and to 
serve  as  a  benchmark  from  which  a  consideration  of  energy  reduction 
measures can be considered.  The EPR is also asked to compare uses against 
industry  benchmarks.    Government  Authorities  such  as  SEDA,  and  the 
Australian  Greenhouse  Office  can  provide  assistance  in  providing  information 
on typical amounts of energy used by different uses, although in many cases 
this information may not be available; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(ii)  consultation  with  SEDA.    Applicants  are  encouraged  to  use  plant  and 
equipment  that  is  energy  efficient,  where  of  course  this  does  not  affect  their 
operations. The EPR should detail what steps will be taken to ensure that the 
most energy efficient equipment has been used. In this regard, applicants are 
required to consult with SEDA (NSW Sustainable Development Authority) and 
to review their publication entitled the “Energy Smart Toolbox” and particularly 
the Energy Savings Manual.  This manual provides handy hints about the use 
of energy saving equipment for a range of different applications.  Please list the 
recommendations  from  this  manual  that  have  been  incorporated  into  this 
development. 

The  requirement  for  consultation  with  the  NSW  Sustainable  Energy  Development 
Authority  (SEDA)  is  to  ensure  that  advice  from  the  State  Government  regarding 
energy efficiency can be incorporated where feasible. SEDA, as the States leading 
Government  authority  on  energy  efficiency  prepares  numerous  publications  on 
enhancing  energy  efficiency.  The  advice  of  SEDA  should  be  obtained,  and  its 
findings incorporated where possible. 

Ongoing energy management 

The need for an energy management system should be considered to help minimise 
energy  use  during  the  life  of  the  facility.  This  will  be  applicable  mainly  for  high 
energy use facilities. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 2–Design guidelines for development 

1 

Background information 

1.1 

Introduction 

These design guidelines supplement Part B4 of this DCP. 

In  particular,  it  is  intended  that  they  be  used  by  larger  development  (in  excess  of 
5,000m2 of gross floor area) to comply with the controls of Part B4 of this DCP. 

The guidelines outline the basic design principles that need to be taken into account 
before submitting a development application for development where the gross floor 
area of the development exceeds 5,000m2. 

Council  is  not  asking  applicants  to  conform  to  every  design  concept  described  in 
these  guidelines.    The  concepts  that  apply  will  vary  according  to  the  nature  of  the 
site  and  the  activities  that  are  proposed  to  occur.    However,  Council  does  require 
that  all  proposals  for  new  buildings,  or  extensions  to  existing  buildings  larger  than 
5,000m2  of  gross  floor  area,  submit  a  Design  Report  that  demonstrates  how  the 
concepts addressed in these guidelines have been considered in the design of the 
proposed development. 

The  guidelines  were  prepared  for  Council  by  the  consulting  firm  Team  D/E/S,  with 
some minor amendments being made by Council. 

1.2  Principles of passive design 

The  aim  of  passive  design  is  to  get  maximum  value  out  of  the  building’s  elements 
making  the  building  itself,  rather  than  additional  systems,  do  the  work  of  keeping 
occupants comfortable.  Good passive design can eliminate or substantially reduce 
the  load  on  heating,  cooling  and  ventilation  systems,  thus  providing  savings  in 
operational energy and reductions in greenhouse emissions. 

Passive  design  involves  the  use  of  siting,  orientation,  form  and  fabric  (the  main 
construction  materials)  of  a  building  to  create  comfortable  internal  conditions  that 
eliminate  or  reduce  the  need  for  mechanical  systems  of  heating,  cooling  and 
ventilation.    A  key  principle  of  passive  design  involves  exposing  or  shading  a 
building’s  thermal  mass  to  solar  radiation  and  moving  air  across  it  according  to 
seasonal conditions. 

For winter, passive design strategies are used to minimise heat loss and maximise 
heat gain.  In summer the aim is to minimise heat gain and maximise heat removal. 

Correct  orientation,  use  of  windows  to  receive  winter  sun  where  appropriate  but 
which  are  shaded  in  summer,  incorporating  appropriate  amounts  of  thermal  mass 
into  the  right  parts  of  the  building,  the  use  of  insulation  and  provision  for  natural 
ventilation are important passive design strategies for heating and cooling. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

These  approaches  are  appropriate for  dwellings,  but  need  to  be  modified for  non–
residential  buildings.    For  example,  direct  sunlight  penetration  into  workplaces  is 
generally  undesirable  for  safety  reasons.    This  limits  the  use  of  internal  thermal 
mass  for  solar  heat  gain.    On  the  other  hand,  passive  approaches  to  lighting–
substituting  diffused  or  indirect  daylight  for  artificial  lighting  is  important  for 
workplaces as they generally consume large amounts of energy for lighting. 

Passive design requires making the right design decisions from the very beginning 
of a project, with careful consideration of: 

(a)  building orientation and siting to maximise daylighting; 

(b)  building  form,  shape  and  footprint:  to  optimise  solar  access,  daylighting  and 
natural ventilation thermal mass to minimise summer heat gain and winter heat 
loss; 

(c)  building  layout  to  group  activities  with  similar  heating,  cooling  and  ventilation 

needs; 

(d)  building  envelope  and  insulation  for  roof,  walls,  windows  and  floors  to  be 
designed and specified to minimise summer heat gain and winter heat loss; 

(e)  natural  ventilation and  cooling:  to maximise  opportunities  and  reduce  building 

energy uptake; 

(f) 

daylighting to reduce the need for artificial lighting; 

(g)  shade  and  sun  control  to  shade  or  expose  thermal  mass  and  windows  as 

appropriate and to prevent glare problems; and 

(h) 

landscape  design  to  complement  other  passive  strategies,  especially  for 
shading  and  cooling  and  evaporative  cooling  as  a  possible  extension  of 
landscape design. 

There  is  no  single  passive  design  solution  that  can  be  applied  to  every  situation.  
Appropriate  solutions  are  many  and  vary  according  to  the  circumstances  of  each 
site and the functional requirements of the building. 

1.3  The Design Report 

The purpose of the Design Report is to consider the passive design principles that 
could be used in the design of the building, with due regard to the type of land use 
being proposed (for example photographic processors who depend upon darkrooms 
will clearly have a problems with the delivery of daylight). 

The Design Report with appropriate diagrams that should present design strategies 
in the following areas: 

(a)  building orientation and siting; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b)  building form/footprint; 

(c) 

thermal mass; 

(d)  building layout; 

(e)  building envelope and insulation; 

(f) 

natural ventilation and cooling; 

(g)  daylighting; 

(h)  shade and sun control; and 

(i) 

landscape design. 

These aspects of passive design are described in more detail in the following pages. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2  Matters to be addressed in the Design Report 

The following matters should be addressed in the Design Report: 

2.1  Building orientation and design 

Objectives 

The  objective  is  to  have  the  building’s  orientation  and  siting  optimised  for  passive 
design strategies that will reduce the need for artificial lighting, mechanical heating, 
cooling and ventilations systems, and thus contribute to energy conservation. 

Development controls 

Explain (with use of a Site Analysis Diagram) how the building’s orientation and its 
position  on  the  site  will  take  best  advantage  of  solar  access  and  microclimatic 
conditions (such as prevailing summer breezes). 

Concept 

A  building  should  be  placed  on  its  site  so  as  to  maximise  solar  access  between 
8.00am and 4.00pm at the mid–winter solstice.  The north wall and roof should not 
be shaded by other buildings or by vegetation in mid winter (this is called ‘north wall 
access’). 

If  a  building  is  orientated  so  that  the  major  areas  of  glazing  are  facing  solar  north 
(Figure  1)  this  maximises  winter  sun  penetration  (because  the  sun  is  at  a  lower 
angle in winter) and assists in shading in summer when the sun is at a higher angle 
(Figure 2). 

For workplaces, sun penetration needs to be kept away from task areas, but may be 
able  to  be  utilised  for  winter  heat  gain  in  non-critical  areas  (e.g.  staff  canteens, 
reception areas)–this needs to be designed in relation to thermal mass (refer to Item 
3).    East  and  west  facing  glazing  should  be  avoided  because  it  can  be  difficult  to 
shade and cause heat gain in summer. 

Building orientation and siting also needs to take account of local microclimate.  For 
example,  knowing  about  the  direction  and  intensity  of  prevailing  winds  means  that 
the  building  can  be  sited  to  exclude  cold  winter  winds  or  to  take  advantage  of 
summer breezes.  The effect of adjacent buildings on airflow needs to be considered 
also (Figure 3). 

Glazing on the north facade of a building takes advantage of the sun’s higher angle 
in summer, requiring less shading.  The lower sun angle in winter can be utilised to 
allow  sunlight  to  penetrate  into  non–crucial  work  areas,  and  thus  contribute  to  the 
building heat gain. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 1: A building should 
be oriented so that the 
longest axis is facing true 
north. 

Figure 3: Part of site 
assessment is gathering 
information about 
microclimate such as 
prevailing winds and the 
movement of air around 
existing buildings.  This 
information can then be used 
to inform building design, 
especially window and air 
vent positioning (also see 
natural ventilation and 
cooling and Figures 5 and 
6). 

Figure 2: The sun’s path is 
higher in the sky in summer 
and lower in winter.  In 
summer, the east and west 
sides of a building are 
exposed to sun for long 
periods–which is a good 
reason to minimise windows 
there. 

2.2  Building form and footprint 

Objectives 

The  objective  is  to  have  the  building’s  shape  and  form  maximise  the  opportunities 
for passive design strategies that will reduce the need for additional lighting, heating 
and cooling systems, and thus contribute to energy conservation. 

Development controls 

Explain in the Design Report (with a diagram if possible) how the building’s form will 
contribute to energy conservation. 

Concept 

The  shape  of  a  building  influences  its  energy  performance  according  to  prevailing 
climate.    The  desirability  of  maximising  north  wall  solar  access  and  having  the 
largest  area  of  glazing  on  the  north  façade,  while  minimising  glazing  on  east  and 
west  walls,  suggests  that  a  rectangular  building  along  an  east–west  axis  is 
preferable.  This also maximises daylight. 

Example:  For  a  3,200m2  two  storey  building,  a  rectangular  shape  of  80m  x  20m 
(providing  80%  daylight  access)  is  preferable  to  a  square  building  of  40m  x  40m 
(with only 40% daylight access). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

This  is  important  because  lighting  can  account  for  up  to  50%  of  total  energy 
consumption  in  some  office  buildings.    There  are  of  course  other  alternatives  to 
square or rectangular buildings for providing effective daylight. 

Where the site itself prevents the most desirable building orientation and shape (for 
example a small site hemmed in by tall buildings on three sides), other strategies for 
achieving energy demand reduction such as daylight, natural ventilation and cooling, 
will need to be given more attention. 

Related concept 

A building’s form also crucially influences the movement of air around and through it 
(see natural ventilation and cooling in Section 2.6 and Figure 4). 

2.3  Thermal mass 

Objectives 

The objective is to have the building’s thermal mass utilised most effectively so as to 
reduce the need for additional heating and cooling systems, and thus contribute to 
energy conservation. 

Development controls 

In  the  Design  Report  explain  how  thermal  mass  will  be  used  in  the  building  to 
contribute to energy conservation. 

Concept 

Thermal mass refers to the heat storage capacity of materials.  Dense materials like 
stone,  brick  and  concrete  have  high  thermal  mass.    They  absorb  heat  from 
surroundings  during  the  day  then  radiate  it  when  the  air  temperature  cools  down.  
Thermal mass stabilises the inside temperature of a building by acting as a heat sink 
and  source  as  well  as  providing  a  time  lag  in  equalising  internal  and  external 
temperatures. 

The  most  effective  use  of  thermal  mass  is  to  have  it  in  direct  contact  with  the 
ground, because the temperature below the ground does not fluctuate as much as 
the air temperature.  Thermal mass enhances solar heat gain through north facing 
windows in winter, absorbing the heat and re–radiating it slowly to warm the internal 
space. 

In  summer,  thermal  mass  needs  to  be  shaded  to  minimise  heat  gain.    Summer 
cooling can be assisted by directing air over thermal mass that has been pre–cooled 
by  ground  contact  (also  see  natural  ventilation  and  cooling).    There  are  also 
propriety  products  such  as  a  hollow  core  concrete  slab  system  through  which 
ventilation air is passed so as to regulate its temperature before it enters the room. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2.4  Building structure and layout 

Objectives 

The  objective  is  to  have  the  arrangement  of  internal  spaces  complement  overall 
passive  design  strategies,  thus  minimising  energy  needed  for  ventilation,  heating, 
cooling and lighting. 

Development controls 

In  the  Design  Report,  explain  how  the  internal  layout  of  the  building  has  been 
designed to enhance energy conservation. 

Concept 

The structural design of a building will influence the possibilities offered for passive 
design.  A structural system that allows for large clear spans and high ceilings can 
facilitate  daylight  and  airflow,  but  also  requires  careful  design  for  heating  and 
cooling. 

One favoured method, for example, is to combine concrete slabs with a steel frame, 
high  ceilings  and  brick  infill.    This  delivers  several  advantages:  a  high  volume  of 
thermal mass, with clear spans that reduce the need for internal structural walls or 
piers.    This,  together  with  high  ceilings  and  large  north  facing  windows  allows  for 
deep  daylight/solar  penetration.    Additionally,  such  structures  afford  good  end–of–
building–life materials recovery that can offset the structure’s high embodied energy. 

The  arrangement  of  the  internal  areas  of  the  building  should  complement  passive 
design strategies.  This involves careful consideration of location of internal wall and 
partitions to take best advantage of daylight and natural ventilation.  The more walls 
or partitions, the more complicated it becomes to naturally ventilate and to ‘daylight’ 
a building.  Another way of saving energy is to group together activities into zones 
with similar heating, lighting, ventilation and acoustic requirements. 

2.5  Building envelope and insulation 

Objectives 

The  objective  is  to  have  the  energy  efficiency  of  the  building  envelope  maximised 
through appropriate design, choice of materials and insulation. 

Development controls 

Specify  the  R–value  (thermal  resistance  value)  of  the  building  envelope.    The 
recommended R–value for the building envelope is: 

(a)  external walls R 1.5; or 

(b)  external walls and windows (averaged) R 0.4 m2; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(c) 

floors R 1.0 m2; and 

(d) 

roof R 3.0 m2. 

Concept 

Building  envelope  refers  to  walls,  roof  and  floor–the  building’s  external  ‘wrapping’, 
which  must  be  designed  to  maximise  energy  efficiency.    This  involves  effectively 
controlling heat loss and gain using measures such as: 

(a)  appropriate  window  to  wall  ratio  (WWR)  noting  that  windows  are  a  major 

source of heat gain and loss; 

(b)  selecting  windows  and  glazing  with  the  appropriate  light,  solar  heat  gain  and 

heat transfer properties; 

(c) 

thermally appropriate construction materials, appropriate shading systems; or 

(d) 

insulation of wall cavity, roof and window seals. 

The building envelope’s thermal performance can be calculated by adding up the R–
values  of  its  elements:  walls,  ceiling,  windows,  floors  and  insulation  materials.    R–
values are a measure of thermal resistance.  The higher the R–value, the higher the 
thermal resistance, thus the greater insulating ability of the material or combination 
of materials. 

Insulation 

Insulation reduces the flow of heat into a building in summer and out of a building in 
winter.    Insulation  does  not  store  heat  in  the  way  that  heavy  thermal  mass 
construction materials like brick and concrete do, it just makes it harder for heat to 
pass through. 

There are basically two types of insulation (bulk and reflective). 

Bulk insulation reduces heat flow via conduction and convection, it consists of layers 
of lightweight fibres of particles that trap air.  Types available are: 

(a)  batts or blankets made of rockwool, acrylic fibre or wool; 

(b) 

loose fill cellulose fibre; and 

(c) 

rigid lightweight boards such polystyrene or strawboard. 

Bulk insulation is used in walls and ceilings. 

Reflective  insulation  reduces  heat  transfer  by  reflecting  radiant  heat  and  is  usually 
used  under  roofs  where  it  effective  in  resisting  downward  heat  flow  from  the  sun.  
Composite bulk and reflective insulation is also available; this is often used for flat or 
raked roofs. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Areas of a building requiring insulation, in order of importance are: 

(a) 

roof and ceilings–where most heat is gained or lost; 

(b)  walls,  which  while  often  having  important  thermal  mass  are  generally  poor 

insulators; 

(c) 

floors, which only require insulation in cold climates where slabs are exposed 
to low ground temperatures; 

(d)  windows, which are very good conductors of heat and are an often neglected 
area  of  insulation.    Ways  of  doing  this  include  external  shutters,  tinted  or 
reflective glass,  ‘low e’ (low emittance) glass or double glazed units; and 

(e)  window frame materials vary in their heat conducting properties with aluminium 
being high (thus a poor insulator) and timber being low (thus a good insulator). 

Note on roof insulation 

Studies of low–rise commercial buildings show that significant savings in capital and 
operating costs can be achieved by using roof insulation. 

For  example,  a  review  of  a  new  building  design  proposal  showed  that  savings  of 
$440,000  on  heating/cooling  plant  and  $14,000  on  annual  energy  costs  could  be 
made by  installing  $28,000  worth  of  insulation.  The  5,440m2 metal  roof  and  sided 
building comprised offices, workshops, warehouse, dispatch facilities and amenities 
(NSW Public Works). 

Note on wall insulation 

Insulated and uninsulated wall assemblies 
Cavity brick wall 
Cavity brick with double sided reflective insulation 
Brick veneer/plasterboard 
Brick veneer/plasterboard with reflective foil in cavity 
Cavity wall: hollow cement blocks (90mm each) 
Cavity wall: hollow cement blocks + R 1 foam board 
Earth construction 300 mm thick (see also 'Berms' in glossary)  2.4–4 

R–values 
0.5 
1.5 
0.46 
1.48 
0.6 
1.6 

Note on glass 

The performance of glass is often measured in terms of heat transmission values or 
‘U values’, which are the inverse of R values (thermal resistance).  The lower the U 
value, the less heat is transmitted through the glass.  Approximate values depending 
on type and brand are as follows: 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

26 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Type of window 
Single glazing, clear 6mm glass 
Single glazing, low e glass 
Double glazing, low e coating argon–filled gap (argon is a 
harmless low conductivity gas) 
Insulated wall (for comparison) 

U–values 
6 
4 
2 

0.5 

Low–U value glazing is used where heat gain is not wanted.  Where windows are to 
be  used  as  part  of  a  passive  heating  strategy,  the  reverse  is  required–the  glass 
needs  to have  a  high solar  heat gain  coefficient,  (this measures  the  percentage  of 
solar radiation passing through the glass, which for 3mm glass is 88%), and the gain 
needs  to  be  more  than  the outflow  of  heat from  inside  that has  been  stored  in  the 
thermal mass. 

Double glazing and other special glass products cannot by themselves be effective 
in preventing unwanted heat gain if other design factors have been neglected, such 
as  appropriate  size  and  placement  of  windows  (larger  glazed  areas  on  north  and 
south facades, less or none on east and west), shading devices and assessment of 
daylight needs.  It should also be noted that reflective and to a lesser extent low ‘e’ 
glass also reduce transmission of light. 

2.6  Natural ventilation and cooling 

Objectives 

The objective is to have a comfortable, healthy indoor environment by using forms of 
ventilation  not  dependent  upon  fossil  fuel  derived  energy  (and  thereby  reduce 
greenhouse emissions). 

Development controls 

In the Design Report, indicate which basic natural ventilation strategies will be used 
and  why  they  are  appropriate  for  the  proposed  building,  particularly  in  terms  of 
energy savings.  Also, demonstrate that advanced natural ventilation strategies have 
been  adequately  evaluated  and  implemented  where  feasible.    Indicate  the 
percentage of floor space to be naturally ventilated (Figure 4). 

Concept 

Ventilation  is  essential  for  the  health  of  building  occupants:  fresh  air  needs  to  be 
inducted;  stale  air  and  CO2  need  to  be  expelled.    By  carefully  managing  airflow 
through  a  building,  comfort  conditions  can  be  improved,  and  in  summer,  a  cooler 
indoor  environment  can  be  created.   This  requires  understanding  and  designing  in 
relation to several factors: 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Designing to assist airflow 

Managing airflow for ventilation requires: 

(a)  knowing about how air moves across the site: the influence of prevailing winds, 
topography,  nearby  buildings  and  vegetation.    These  factors  as  well  as  solar 
access and local rainfall make up the ‘micro–climate’; 

(b) 

taking into account how building form directs air movements.  In general: 

(i) 

airflow over a building creates positive and negative pressures, which can 
affect how air moves through a building; 

(ii)  sharp edges cause eddies and suction effects; and 

(iii) 

roof form is critical (with flat roofs having the highest wind shadow). 

This  means  taking  external  air  movement  and  air  pressure  (such  as  prevailing 
winds)  into  account  when  determining  the  size  and  locations  of  the  building’s 
ventilation openings (Figure 5). 

Qualification  1:    In  all  cases  the  ventilation  scheme  has  to  be  designed  in 
conjunction with, and in compliance with fire regulations. 

Qualification 2:  The induction of external air into a building during the day and night 
has  to  be  based  on  the  quality  of  this  air  being  good.    If  doubts  exist  it  should  be 
tested. 

Qualification 3:  Close proximity to external noise can limit opportunities for natural 
ventilation. 

Figure 4: Applicants must 
indicate the percentages of 
their building to be naturally 
and mechanically ventilated 
(i.e. air conditioned).  The 
aim is to minimise air–
conditioned spaces. 

Figure 5: Roof shape affects how air flows over and around 
a building.  Positive pressures are created on the windward 
side and negative pressures on the leeward side.  Flat roofs 
have large wind shadows and can be subject to suction.  
When making decisions about roof form, building site 
conditions need to be taken into account so as to avoid 
creating unwanted situations like wind tunnels, eddies and 
suction effects, and to benefit from cooling summer breezes 
(see also natural ventilation and cooling and Figure 9). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Designing to assist cooling 

Managing airflow for ventilation and cooling requires all of the above, plus: 

(a)  understanding  the  nature  and  the  disposition  of  the  building’s  thermal  mass; 

and 

(b)  having  information  about  differences  in  temperature:  externally  and  internally; 

between day and night; between different parts of the building. 

With this information, passive ventilation systems can be designed to move ambient 
cooler  air  to  where  it  can  be  most  effective.    For  example,  air  can  be  pre–cooled 
before  entering  a  building  by  directing  it  across  shaded  thermal  mass  that  is  at  a 
lower temperature than outdoors. 

Another example is night cooling.  Here, the colder night air is drawn in through low 
level  intakes  (such  as  grills)  and  exhausted  through  high  level  vents  to  flush  the 
building of warm air that has accumulated during the day, to make the building more 
comfortable at the start of the day. 

This is particularly appropriate for offices with large numbers of computers and other 
equipment that give off a lot of heat during the day.  More sophisticated night cooling 
techniques  involve  utilisation  of  a  building’s  thermal  mass,  such  as  directing  air 
through the centre of a custom designed slab or through plenums. 

Basic natural ventilation 

Cross–ventilation 

This  is  the  simplest  of  measures  and  just  requires  an  appropriate  sized  and 
positioned building openings (windows, vents) and an internal layout that allows for 
free air movement for prevailing or managed air currents (Figure 6). 

In  many  commercial  buildings  (e.g.  shops  with  store  rooms  at  rear)  openable 
windows may not be desirable for security reasons.  Instead, grills and vents should 
be  employed–appropriately  sized  and  positioned  to  facilitate  cross  ventilation 
(Figure 7). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 6: Cross ventilation can be supplied 
by appropriately positioned openable 
windows and/or vents.  This is easier to 
achieve for freestanding buildings with 
access to good quality air and where 
external noise is not a problem.  Where 
conditions are not optimal, care needs to be 
exercised in positioning air intakes, so as to 
minimise the building occupants’ exposure to 
externally generated air or noise pollution.  
Effectively designed cross ventilation can 
reduce the need for air conditioning and 
fans, and thus save on energy costs. 

Figure 7: Where premises are bounded on 
either sides, such as shops, cross ventilation 
presents a challenge.  Shops usually have a 
wall or partition between display and 
storage/office space.  This can obstruct 
airflow, creating stuffy spaces requiring air 
conditioning.  In such situations cross 
ventilation can be achieved (and security 
maintained) by creating an airflow from the 
entrance to interior vents or highlight 
windows at the rear of the shop, through to 
secure vents or barred windows at the rear 
of the building. 

The stack effect 

The ‘stack effect’ refers to the draught that is created by warm buoyant air as it rises 
in a tall confined space.  This could be a chimney, stairwell, atrium or lift shaft.  The 
stack  effect  can  be  taken  advantage  of  to  improve  internal  comfort  conditions  in 
various ways. 

High level (window) ventilation 

High–level  windows  (such  as  clerestory  windows)  are  effective  for  removing  hot 
stale  air.    Combined with  lower  level  air  intake  (windows  or  vents)  on  the opposite 
side of a space, they can be used for night cooling (see cooling above).  Used in the 
same way during the day, high–level windows can increase comfort in hot weather, 
while not actually lowering the indoor temperature. 

Cowlings 

These  are  roof–mounted  vents  designed  to  catch  wind.    They  need  to  be 
appropriately sized and positioned in relation to roof profile and air movement. 

Rotary ridge ventilators 

These are usually mounted on roof ridges and rotate according to wind direction to 
draw air out of internal spaces. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Ridge vents 

These can be of several types.  For example linear ridge vents run along the length 
of  the  roof  ridge  and  are  generally  used  just  to  ventilate  the  roof  space,  so  as  to 
avoid  moisture  build  up.    Ridge  vents  that  are  operable  (able  to  be  opened  and 
closed) are also available. 

These can be used more ambitiously as part of a passive strategy to ventilate room 
space  in  a  building  with  pitched  roof  and  raked  ceilings.    Depending  on  the 
configuration  of  the  space,  the  stack  effect  (see  below)  could  be  utilised  to  assist 
airflow. 

Solar fans 

Fans  driven  with  a  small  electric  motor  powered,  during  good  daylight,  by  a  small 
photovoltaic cell (instead of mains electricity).  Ridge or chimney mounted solar fans 
can assist hot air extraction in roof spaces in premises. 

Advanced natural ventilation 

For buildings over $2 million 

Increasingly  stack–assisted  ventilation  is  being  favoured  by  environmentally  aware 
engineers as a way of moving air through a building instead of using powered fans.  
The ‘stack effect’ refers to the draught that is created by warm buoyant air as it rises 
in a tall confined space.  This could be a chimney, stairwell, atrium or lift shaft.  The 
stack  effect  can  be  taken  advantage  of  to  improve  internal  comfort  conditions  in 
various ways. 

Atriums 

An atrium is a tall internal courtyard with a glazed roof.  It can assist air movement in 
a similar way to a chimney, as well as provide capacity for other internal spaces to 
induct  and  exhaust  air.    Atriums  also  deliver  natural  light  and  can  improve  the 
aesthetic appeal of internal spaces (Figure 8). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 8: The main use of 
atriums is to bring daylight 
into the core of buildings, but 
they can also be designed to 
enhance natural ventilation, 
and thus reduce or eliminate 
the need for air conditioning. 

Figure 9: The stack effect, where warm air rises and is 
displaced by cool air at lower levels, can be used for natural 
ventilation and cooling.  A chimney (or other tall narrow 
spaces such as a stairwell) enhances this by accelerating 
the airflow.  The diagram shows a sophisticated stack 
ventilation system for multi–storey buildings, with different 
kinds of chimney openings to modify the action of wind 
pressures.  The use of chimneys and similar spaces as a 
means of natural ventilation and cooling needs to be 
incorporated at the early stages of building design and 
should take local wind conditions into account (see also 
building orientation and siting and Figures 4 and 5). 

Chimneys 

To  create  an  efficient  stack  effect  in  a  chimney  the  critical  factors  are  its  height, 
dimensions, the position and size of openings, air pressures and desired rates of air 
change.  Additionally, the introduction of a material at a higher elevation to heat or to 
expose  to  solar  radiation  can  increase  the  efficiency  of  the  draw,  particularly 
important if low–level air is being inducted for cooling.  The design of such structures 
their  construction  are  a 
requires  computer  modelling,  and  while 
considerable  project  expense  this  has  to  be  offset  against  the  cost  of  air  handling 
plant and operational costs.  For large scale projects this method and those below 
should be reviewed (Figure 9). 

this  and 

Shafts, service conduits, stairwells 

These building elements can be designed to manage airflow, providing air induction 
and expulsion is appropriately managed and that large openings (i.e. doorways) and 
other apertures are  kept  in  the  open  or  closed position  that the  system  requires  to 
function. 

Double facades 

A double facade effectively acts as an airway in the same way as an atrium, but with 
a very shallow depth.  It can also be designed to shade external walls and be used 
to group services instead of having separate service shafts (Figure 10). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

32 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Figure 10: A double facade 
acts as an airway in the 
same way as an atrium, but 
with a very shallow depth.  It 
also shades the external wall 
and can be used to group 
building services externally. 

Figure 11: The stable temperature of a concrete slab can be 
utilised as part of a heating or cooling strategy.  The space 
between the slab and a suspended ceiling or between the 
slab and a platform floor can function as a plenum by 
directing air across the slab, allowing it to circulate and 
come in contact with the slab’s stable temperature.  
Pipework is sometimes introduced into the slab.  It may be 
used to carry either pre–cooled or pre–heated water or air.  
The concrete’s thermal mass stores heat or cold, according 
to the design parameters. 

Plenum utilisation and other means to facilitate airflow 

A  plenum  is  normally  introduced  as  a  designed  feature  of  the  building  fabric.    It 
allows hot or cool air to pass below the thermal mass of a slab to heat or cool it.  It is 
an appropriate device in both a naturally ventilated building as well as an alternative 
to ducting in a mechanically serviced (air–conditioned) building. 

There  are  propriety  products  can  be  used  to  effectively  retrofit  an  existing  slab  so 
that it performs as if had been fabricated with a plenum.  For example, a rigid sheet 
with  a  profile  that  forms  air  channels  and  can  be  installed  between  a  false  ceiling 
and  slab  or  a  pedestal  floor  and  slab  to  draw  in  air.    Additionally  there  are  design 
solutions  and  products  that  provide  alternatives  to  the  obstruction of  thermal  mass 
by false ceilings, such as permeable ceilings that allow air to pass through them. 

Ceilings in commercial buildings are generally suspended grids into which acoustic 
backed ceiling tiles fit.  This prevents air from coming into contact with the thermal 
mass of the concrete slab above.  In retrofitting a building, it would be advantageous 
to  substitute  this  with  an  open  grid  ceiling  or  permeable  tiles  (without  acoustic 
backing).  This would allow rising warm air created by people and equipment to pass 
through  the  ceiling  to  the  cooler  underside  of  the  slab,  which  would  act  as  a  ‘heat 
sink’ (Figure 11). 

2.7  Daylighting 

Objectives 

The objective is to have an increased ratio of daylight to artificial light without unduly 
increasing  the  building’s  heat  load,  and  therefore  to  reduce  energy  uptake  and 
greenhouse emissions. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

33 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Development controls 

All  applicants  are  required  to  develop  a  daylighting  strategy.    The  Design  Report 
should include a diagram indicating methods for maximising daylight penetration into 
the building (Figure 24). 

Concept 

Daylight consists of direct and reflected sunlight and skylight.  Daylighting should be 
an  integral  part  of  the  overall  design  of  a  building.    Well–designed  daylight  can 
deliver  a  direct  reduction  of  energy  use  because  it  reduces  the  need  for  artificial 
lighting.  On the other hand poorly designed daylighting can increase the heat load 
in summer, leading to more energy being used for cooling. 

Compared to other building materials, glass, when exposed to sunlight, lets in much 
more radiant heat into a building.  Also, heat generated inside a building is lost much 
more  rapidly  through  glass  than  through  other  materials  when  the  outside 
temperature  is  lower.    Therefore  it  is  very  important  that  daylighting,  heating  and 
cooling  should  be  designed  in  relation  to  each  other  to  achieve  the  most  energy 
efficient  outcomes.    This  is  why  on  large  projects  computer  modelling  of  different 
design options is often done. 

When designing and managing daylighting systems it is important to eliminate glare.  
Window  orientation  and  geometry,  the  type  of  glazing  used  and  the  reflectance  of 
walls and other surfaces and shade structures can eliminate unwanted glare.  The 
type of glazing, types of windows, window angle, the use of reflective materials and 
paints, plus a range of design strategies and off the shelf products can all affect the 
quality and management of daylight entering a building. 

Related concept 

A  rectangular  building  with  a  narrow  floor  plate,  oriented  east–west  will  optimise 
daylighting  opportunities.    The  type  of  structural  grid  is  also  a  factor  (see  building 
orientation and building form). 

Daylighting methods 

Side lighting (conventional windows) 

These  provide  adequate  daylight  in  a  building’s  perimeter  zones,  but  illumination 
levels  fall  off  rapidly  with  distance  from  the  window  wall.    A  typical  limit  is  4  to  6 
metres depending on the height of the window. 

Clerestory windows 

High–level  windows  often  arranged  in  strips.    Used  in  conjunction  with  reflective 
surfaces  they  enable  deep  penetration  of  indirect  light,  thus  avoiding  glare.  If 
openable,  they  can  also  double  as  high  level  air  vents  (see  natural  ventilation  and 
cooling).  South facing clerestories admit the most even light (Figure 12). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

34 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Skylights 

These admit more daylight per square metre of glazed area than vertical windows, 
but they also collect more heat, which needs to be controlled.  Off the shelf products 
with  double  glazing  and  heat  reflective  coating  on one  side  (low  emission or  low  e 
glass)  are  available.    Skylights  can  be  fixed  or  openable,  the  latter  providing  good 
high level venting (see natural ventilation and cooling–Figure 13). 

Interior treatments 

Reflective  materials,  mirrors,  reflective  colours  and  surface  treatment  are  all 
important to consider for achieving the best daylighting performance. 

Figures 12–15: Different approaches to daylighting. 

A clerestory window and reflective surface to 
bounce light deeper into a room. 

A skylight set into a roof with no ceiling 
cavity (the roof should be insulated). 

A light well cutting through roof and floor 
plates to bring light deep into a building. 

A light tube brings light through the ceiling 
cavity. 

Special Glazing 

There are types of glass and off the shelf insulating glass units that are designed to 
allow light transmission while reducing heat transmission.  Some, such as tinted or 
mirror glass, also reduce light transmission, compared to clear glass.  Most effective 
for daylighting and heat insulation is double glazing (which has the added bonus of 
significantly  reducing  external  noise  penetration).    It  is  also  more  expensive.    To 
prevent  glare,  frosted  or  sandblasted  glass  panels  could  be  used  instead  of  clear 
glass  (e.g.  upper  panels)  in  situations  where  visual  comfort  is  critical  (such  as 
premises with large numbers of computers). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

35 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Related concept 

Glazing options needs to be assessed at the same time as overall insulation needs 
(see building envelope and insulation). 

Light wells 

These  perform  a  similar  function  to  atriums  but  rather  than  being  a  void  space 
around which functional spaces are disposed, a light well is a dissection through the 
floor plates (Figure 14). 

Light tubes 

Light tubes are used to bring light from a roof or wall through an intermediate space 
(like  a  roof  cavity)  into  a  room.    Sometimes  they  have  a  highly  reflective  inner 
surface  to  intensify  light  penetration,  usually  combined  with  a  translucent  ceiling 
fixture to evenly diffuse the light delivered to the interior (Figure 15). 

Atriums 

An  atrium  is  a  void  intersecting  all  building  levels  that  brings  light  into  the  building 
core.    Atriums  need  to  be  carefully  designed  so  as  to  manage  light  penetration 
without  creating  areas  of  glare.    Atriums  can  also  be  designed  to  facilitate  natural 
ventilation (see natural ventilation and cooling–Figure 16). 

Figure 16: Atriums bring 
light into a building and can 
also be used as part of the 
natural ventilation strategy 
(natural ventilation and 
Figure 8). 

Figure 17: Light shelves are 
horizontal solid structures 
with a highly reflective 
surface used to bounce 
daylight off the ceiling 
making it penetrate deeper 
into the interior space than 
by a window alone.  Their 
performance varies 
according to ceiling height 
and the height of the light 
shelf from the floor.  Light 
shelves can increase 
uniformity of illumination 
between work areas near 
and far from windows. 

Figure 18: A light shelf can 
be positioned inside the 
window, half inside/half 
outside or outside only.  The 
position chosen affects the 
shadow area created 
underneath the shelf as well 
as the depth of light 
penetration.  Light shelves 
need to be carefully 
designed in terms of height 
and positioning, as well as in 
relation to the dimensions of 
the space they will serve. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

36 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Prismatic panels 

These  use  refraction  or  reflection  to  redistribute  daylight  and  sunlight  away  from  a 
window and further into a room (for example they are often used in conjunction with 
a  skylight  to  create more  even,  usable  light).    They  eliminate glare  and  solar  gain, 
increase depth of light penetration but require careful setting. 

Light shelves 

Light shelves provide indirect light deep into an interior space, while reducing solar 
gain and glare.  Their effectiveness depends upon window height, room height and 
depth; the dimensions, surface finish and positioning of the light shelf, as well as the 
interior colour scheme, lighter colours have higher reflectance (Figures 17 and 18). 

Other  optical  devices,  especially  light  control  panels  that  use  non–imaging  optics 
and reflective materials are under development and used in specialist contexts. 

2.8  Shade and sun control 

Objectives 

The  objective  is  to  have  the  protection  of  buildings  from  unwanted  seasonal  heat 
gain,  to  reduce  glare  to  internal  spaces  and  to  minimise  external  ‘heat  islanding’, 
and thus to reduce energy uptake and greenhouse emissions. 

Development controls 

If glazing is used on east or west facades, it must be shaded (preferably by external 
shading devices) from penetration by summer sun. 

In the Design Report explain the shade strategy to be used for the building. 

Concept 

Provision of shade in the right places and at the right time of the year, appropriate to 
the building, its site and the kind of activities to be carried out in it, is an important 
part of passive design. Reasons for providing shade are: 

(a) 

to control solar radiation entering a building (especially through glass) when it 
is not wanted (e.g. in summer); 

(b) 

to manage glare (especially to stop sunlight falling directly on task areas); 

(c) 

to  manage  the  heat  gain  of  external  thermal  mass  and  to  reduce  heating 
islanding caused by reflected heat; and 

(d) 

to provide protection from ultra–violet light radiation in external areas used by a 
building’s occupants (such as recreation areas, around canteens). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

37 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

External shade structures such as overhangs and awnings assist in preventing heat 
transmission through glass as well as cutting out glare.  Therefore where the aim is 
to control heat gain, external treatment is always preferable to internal devices such 
as  blinds  that  affect  light  transmission  only.    External  shade  structures  are  also 
preferable to blinds because they allow visual connection with the outside, which is 
more pleasant for building occupants. 

For  facade  design  and  in  determining  the  shading  requirements  of  windows,  both 
the  vertical  and  the  horizontal  shadow  angles  need  to  be  considered.    Qualified 
building  designers  such  as  architects  or  engineers  use  shadow  protractors  with 
regional Sun Charts or computer programs for this purpose (Figure 19). 

Figure 19: In determining the shading requirements of windows, both the vertical and 
horizontal shadow angles need to be considered.  Qualified building designers such as 
architects or engineers use shadow protractors with regional Sun Charts or computer 
programs for this purpose.  The vertical shadow angle is used to determine the cut–off line 
for shade structures roughly parallel to the ground (like awnings).  The horizontal shadow 
angle is used when considering the shading effect of an irregular facade or of vertical shade 
elements (like fixed vertical louvres). 

Facade design 

Shade provision of shade should not be a last minute ‘add–on’, but an integral part 
of  facade  design.    Given  that  sunlight  and  daylight  penetrate  buildings  differently 
according  to  building  orientation  and  season,  it  is  very  unlikely  that  an  energy 
efficient  building  would  have  identical  fenestration  and  shading  treatment  on  all 
facades. 

Building shade structures 

The  addition  of  eaves,  overhangs,  awnings,  verandas  or  colonnades  should  be 
considered at an early stage of building design.  Shade needs will be determined by 
factors such as orientation, location of thermal mass, of windows and the building’s 
likely patterns of use. 

Louvres 

These can be exterior or interior; vertical or horizontal; fixed or operable.  Operable 
louvres can be manual or mechanical; user activated or operated by a sun tracking 
system.  Options should be selected according to building orientation, window size 
and design, room use and occupancy levels. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

38 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Blinds and shutters 

These  can  be  interior  or  exterior  and  should  be  selected  according  to  building 
orientation,  window  size  and  design,  room  use  and  occupancy.    External  shade 
devices such as louvres are available with either horizontal or vertical slats.  If they 
are  to  be  fixed,  sun  angle  calculations  need  to  be  done  carefully.    Otherwise 
adjustable  louvers  can  be  used,  angling  them  as  needed  to  cut  out  early  morning 
and  late  afternoon  sun.    On  east  and  west  windows  this  will  also  block  the  view 
(Figure 20). 

Figure 20: External shade 
devices such as louvres are 
available with either 
horizontal or vertical slats.  If 
they are to be fixed, sun 
angle calculations need to 
be done carefully.  
Otherwise adjustable louvers 
can be used. 

Figure 21: Earth berms are 
mounds of earth in direct 
contact with an external wall.  
They are used to stabilise 
internal temperatures by 
reducing the exposure of the 
thermal mass to variations in 
air temperature.  They also 
reduce noise transmission. 

Figure 22: Building grassing 
works on the same principle 
as a berm, but protects a 
larger area of the building 
envelope against external 
heat gain and internal heat 
loss.  It also insulates 
against sound, as well as 
advantaging surrounding 
areas by reducing ‘heat 
islanding’ i.e. heat given off 
from large structures, that 
collectively contributes to 
increasing temperatures of 
built–up areas compared to 
less developed surrounding 
areas. 

2.9  Landscape design 

Objectives 

The  objective  is  to  have  landscape  elements  that  provide  shading  and  cooling  to 
enhance the building’s thermal performance and thereby reduce energy uptake and 
greenhouse emissions. 

Development controls 

In  the  Design  Report  demonstrate  how  the  landscaping  strategy  will  contribute  to 
building energy performance. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

39 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Concept 

Landscape design is not just about making an industrial or commercial development 
look good.  It can also be a passive means of contributing to thermal performance 
and daylighting. 

Trees 

Trees  can  provide  seasonally  appropriate  shading  to  thermal  mass,  windows  and 
external  areas.   Some  pre–cooling  effects  can be  achieved  by  allowing  air  to  pass 
through  trees  or  shrubs  before  entering  a  building.    There  are  also  psychological 
benefits  for  people  working  in  a  building  where  there  are  visual  and  tangible 
connections to trees. 

Trees  need  to  be  selected  and  planted  extremely  carefully  in  relation  to  building 
function  and  siting.    Their  growth  pattern  and  growth  rate,  mature  size,  canopy 
density  and  whether  they  are  deciduous  or  evergreen  should  all  be  appropriate  to 
the  nature  of  the  site.    Species  native  to  the  City  of  Bankstown  (derived  where 
possible from locally sourced seedstock) should be used wherever possible as their 
water  requirements  are  most  likely  to  less  than  imported  species  and  they  will 
contribute to maintaining local biodiversity. 

Berms 

These are mounds of earth in direct contact with an external wall, used to alter the 
ratio of heat gain and loss by reducing exposure of thermal mass to solar radiation 
(Figure 21). 

Building grassing 

This  is  an  established  way  to  add  external  insulation,  reduce  solar  heat  gain  and 
loss.    It  also  reduces  ‘heat  islanding’  and  thus  urban  thermal  mass  temperature 
increase (Figure 22). 

Roof gardens and planters 

These are also established ways to add external insulation, reduce solar heat gain 
and loss.  It also reduces ‘heat islanding’ (and thus urban thermal mass temperature 
increase). 

Evaporative cooling 

This  is  an  old  method  that  can  be  used  when  designing  landscape  or  building 
envelope.    It  is  based  on  the  principal  of  pre–cooling  air  by  passing  it  through  or 
across water.  It does this in three ways. 

Still/running  water/fountains  as  part  of  landscaping  can  reduce  external  air 
temperature as latent heat is removed during evaporation. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

40 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Spray mist systems increase the rate of evaporation and seek to spatially manage 
the water vapour and air movement. 

Note: the water used in evaporative cooling system should be collected roof water.  
If stored in underground tanks its cooling capability  will be enhanced and pumping 
should whenever possible be from a solar pump. 

Figure 24: As part of the 
Design Report that all 
applicants must submit with 
their development 
application, a site diagram 
indicating the footprint and 
orientation of the proposed 
building must be included. 

Figure 25: As part of the 
Design Report all applicants 
must indicate the 
percentages of their building 
to be naturally and 
mechanically ventilated (i.e. 
air conditioned).  The aim is 
to minimise air–conditioned 
spaces. 

Figure 23: As part of the 
Design Report that all 
applicants must submit with 
their development 
application, a site analysis 
must be included.  This must 
indicate existing structures, 
adjacent buildings or 
features; slope, drainage, 
prevailing seasonal winds; 
vegetation and site features; 
environmental constraints 
and opportunities (e.g. 
proximity to a water way or a 
sensitive area of vegetation). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

41 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

DEFINITIONS 

The following terms used in these guidelines are defined: 

Air flow means the movement of air outside and inside a building. 

Atrium means a void intersecting all building levels that brings light (and sometimes 
air) into a building core. 

Berm  means  soil  piled  against  the  length  of  a  wall  at  an  angle  to  reduce  the 
exposure  of  surface  area  to  solar  radiation  and  to  assist  in  the  maintenance  of 
equilibrium  between  subsoil  ground  temperature  and  the  building’s  thermal  mass.  
Berms also provide insulation against noise. 

Building grassing means the use of grass as external insulation and as a means to 
reduce  exposure  of  the  building  surface  to  solar  radiation.    This  approach  also 
provides insulation against noise. 

Clerestory means a high level window used for daylighting. 

Daylighting means a range of techniques used to introduce sun and sky light into a 
building. 

Embodied  energy  means  the  accumulated  energy  used  to  manufacture  and 
maintain a material or product from the extraction of raw materials to the end of its 
useful life, disposal and/or recycling.   Embodied energy is distinct from operational 
energy. 
important  part  of 
environmental Life Cycle Assessment.  A distinction is often made between Process 
Energy required (e.g. for extraction, manufacturing) and other energy inputs e.g. for 
product transportation or for periodic maintenance. 

  The  measurement  of  embodied  energy 

is  an 

Evaporative  cooling  means  various  techniques  of  using  evaporated  water  (water 
vapour at a lower than air temperature) to cool air. 

Light  tube  means  a  device  for  bringing  light  through  a  cavity  to  an  interior  space 
without diffusion. 

Light shelf means a means of deflecting light onto an internal reflective surface to 
increase the depth of light penetration into an internal space. 

Natural ventilation means a range of techniques that combine natural airflow with 
building  design  characteristics  to  induce fresh  air  into  a  building  and  exhaust  stale 
air.    Natural  ventilation  is  also  sometimes  used  as  a  means  to  reduce  the 
temperature of a building’s thermal mass. 

Night  cooling  means  the  induction  of  cool  night  air  into  a  building  to  reduce  the 
temperature of its thermal mass. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

42 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Plenum  means  a  space  in  which  air  can  pass  horizontally,  either  between  a 
concrete slab and suspended floor or between the underside of a slab and a ceiling. 

Permeable  ceiling  means  a  false  ceiling  that  allows  air  to  come  in  direct  contact 
with a slab above it. 

R–value  means  a  measure  of  the  thermal  resistance  of  a  material  or  building 
element. 

Solar fan means a roof or ridge fan used to induct or extract air from a building that 
is  driven  by  a  photovoltaically  produced  electric  power  (electricity  generated  by 
sunlight). 

Solar radiation means the heat and light created by the combination of all the sun’s 
rays  (ultra–violet,  infrared,  electromagnetic  waves)  plus  high  energy  charged 
particles. 

Shade audit means a quantification of all source of available and needed shade for 
a specific site. 

Stack  effect  means  the  tendency  for  warm  air  to  rise  in  a  tall  confined  space, 
creating a draft and thereby drawing in cooler air at a lower level. 

Stack ventilation/solar chimneys means the use of the stack effect as a means of 
naturally  ventilating  and  cooling  a  building.    An  example  would  be  the  use  of  a 
building element such as a stairwell or shaft, with a top vent, air movement across 
this vent and high temperature at or above roof level, all which would work together 
to extract hot air out of a space and induct in ground level cool air. 

Thermal  mass  means  the  thermal  mass  of  a  building  refers  to  the  capacity  of 
materials to store heat or cold.  Materials with a high thermal mass are dense, such 
as brick, concrete, stone. 

U–value means the measure of a material’s overall thermal transmittance. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B4 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

43 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown 
Development 
Control 
Plan 2015 

PART B5 

PARKING 

 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

CONTENTS 

Section 1 

Introduction   

Section 2  Off–Street Parking   

Section 3  Off–Street Parking Design and Layouts   

Section 4  Off–Street Parking Access and Circulation 

Section 5  Other Considerations 

Section 6 

Landscaping  

3 

4 

13 

19 

21 

24 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 1–INTRODUCTION 

Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015 is Council's principal planning document 
to  regulate  effective  and  orderly  development  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.    The  LEP 
provides  objectives,  zones  and  development  standards  such  as  lot  sizes  and  floor 
space ratios. 

Part  B5  of  Bankstown  Development  Control  Plan  2015  supplements  the  LEP  by 
providing  additional  objectives  and  development  controls  to  enhance  the  function 
and  appearance  of  off–street  parking  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.    The  development 
controls  include  off–street  parking  requirements,  layout  dimensions,  access  and 
landscaping. 

Part B5 applies to all land in the City of Bankstown.  Applicants must note: 

• 

• 

Development  must  also  comply  with  the  precinct  controls  of  this  DCP.  
However  if  applicable  to  a  development  application,  the  precinct  controls  will 
prevail if there is an inconsistency with any development controls in Part B5. 

Development on land at risk of flooding must also comply with Part B12–Flood 
Risk Management. 

Objectives 

The objectives of Part B5 of this DCP are: 

(a)  To have car parking meet the demands of new development. 

(b)  To have the layout and design of car parks function efficiently and safely. 

(c)  To have development achieve the parking requirements. 

(d)  To  have  the  design  of  open–air  car  parks  incorporate  landscaping  areas  to 

minimise the visual impact. 

(e)  To  have  a  balance  between  parking  requirements,  visual  aesthetics  and 
pedestrian  safety,  which  includes  access  for  people  with  disabilities  and 
convenience for drivers. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 2–OFF STREET PARKING 

Objectives 

The objectives of off–street parking are: 

(a)  To have car parking meet the demands generated by various land uses. 

(b)  To  have traffic flows  that do not  adversely  affect the  surrounding  area due  to 

vehicles parked on the streets. 

(c)  To  have  minimal  on–street  car  parking  in  order  to  ensure  road  safety  and 

visual aesthetics. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Off–street parking spaces 

2.1  Development  must  calculate  the  amount  of  parking  required  using  the 

schedule of off–street parking requirements. 

2.2  Development  not  included  in  the  schedule  of  car  parking  standards  must 
submit a parking study for Council's consideration. A qualified traffic consultant 
must prepare the parking study. 

2.3  Car parking and driveway access in flood liable land in the City of Bankstown 
must be in accordance with Part B12–Flood Risk Management of this DCP. 

Schedule: Off–street parking requirements 

Land use 

Off–street parking requirements 

Attached dwellings 

Bed and breakfast 
accommodation 
Boarding houses 

Bulky goods 
premises 

1 car space per 1 bedroom dwelling; or  
1.5 car spaces per 2 bedroom dwelling; or 
2 car spaces per 3 or more bedroom dwelling. 
1 car space for resident; and 
1 car space per 2 bedrooms.  
1 car space per 3 bedrooms. 

1 car space per 60m2 gross floor area. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Business premises/ 
Office premises 

1  Bankstown CBD, Chester Hill Village Centre and 

Sefton Small Village Centre 

1 car space per 40m2 of half the gross floor area of the 
premises; and a planning agreement is considered on the 
remaining 50% of parking requirements for the purpose of 
public parking. 

2  Other centres 

1 car space per 40m2 gross floor area of the premises. 

Note: Council may vary the car parking requirement for 
minor alterations and additions to a business development 
solely where the total gross floor area of the building does 
not exceed 500m2. 
1 car space per caravan site. 

3 car spaces per 100m2 gross floor area; or 
3 car spaces for each work bay whichever is greater. 
1 car space per employee (stack parking is permitted); and 
2 additional car spaces for the exclusive use of any 
associated dwelling. 
1 car space per 2 employees. 

Sufficient off–street employee and visitor parking to satisfy 
peak demand; and 
1 truck space for each vehicle present at the time of peak 
vehicle accumulation on the site for both fleet and contract–
operator vehicles. 

Note 1: On–site overnight truck parking should be provided 
as required.  

Note 2: An area of 50m2 (including 20m length) per vehicle 
is to be provided for vehicles held or queued on the site. 

Note 3: Provision of parking is to be supported by a parking 
survey. 
1 car space per 2 or less bedrooms; or 
2 car spaces per 3 or more bedrooms. 
2 car spaces per dwelling behind the front building line. 

1 car space per employee or classroom, whichever is the 
greater; and 
1 car space per 8 students in year 12. 
2 car spaces per dwelling behind the front building line. 

Caravan parks 

Car tyre retail outlets 

Child care centres 

Correctional centres 

Depots/transport 
depots 

Dual occupancies 

Dwelling houses 

Educational 
establishments 

Family day care 
centres 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Freight transport 
terminals 

Sufficient off–street employee and visitor parking to satisfy 
peak demand; and 1 truck space for each vehicle present at 
the time of peak vehicle accumulation on the site for both 
fleet and contract-operator vehicles. 

Group homes 

Health consulting 
rooms  
Home based child 
care centres 
Home businesses/ 
home occupations 

Hotel or motel 
accommodation 
Industries and light 
industries including 
vehicle body repair 
workshops and 
vehicle repair stations 

Note 1: On–site overnight truck parking should be provided. 

Note 2: Provision of parking is to be supported by a parking 
survey. 
2 car spaces behind the front building line. 

3 car spaces for the consulting rooms; and 
2 car spaces for the associated dwelling. 
2 car spaces per dwelling behind the front building line.  

2 car spaces per dwelling behind the front building line. 

Note 1: Additional car parking may be required for the 
proposed home business and must be made available on–
site. 

Note 2: All loading and unloading is to be conducted on-site 
and an area is to be made available for this activity behind 
the front building line. 
1 car space per unit; and 
1 car space per 2 employees. 
1 car space per 100m² of gross floor area. 

Note 1: Where a retailing component is involved, provided 
this does not exceed 15% of the gross floor area (covering 
the retail component only) 1 car space per 100m² of gross 
floor area is to be provided. 

Note 2: Where an office component is involved, provided 
this does not exceed 20% of the total gross floor area, 1 car 
space per 100m² of gross floor area is to be provided. Any 
additional office space will be assessed at a rate of 1 car 
space per 40m² of gross floor area. 

Note 3: When calculating the parking requirements for 
factories and factory units, Council may exclude a 
mezzanine level used solely for storage purposes provided: 
• 
The floor of the mezzanine level is a light–weight floor; 
• 
The mezzanine level is enclosed on one or more sides 
with a hand rail as opposed to walls; and 
The floor–to–ceiling height of the mezzanine level does 
not exceed 3 metres. 

• 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Live–work enterprises  2 car spaces in addition to the off–street parking 

Marinas 

Medical centres 

Multi dwelling 
housing 

Places of public 
worship 

Residential flat 
buildings 

requirements for the residential component of the dwelling. 
0.5 car space per employee; and 
0.2 car space per swing mooring; and 
0.2 car space per dry storage berth; and 
0.6 car space per wet berth. 
1 car space per 25m² of gross floor area. 

Note: Ambulance/disability spaces must be provided 
according to the recent Australian Standard. 
1 car space per 1 bedroom dwelling; or 
1.5 car spaces per 2 bedroom dwelling; or 
2 car spaces per 3 or more bedroom dwelling; and 
1 visitor car space per 5 dwellings. 
Car parking must be provided on–site at a minimum rate of 
1 car space per 5m2

of the assembly area. 

Car parking for ancillary uses and social / special events 
must be provided on–site on the basis of a Parking Study, to 
be submitted with the development application. 
In Zone R4, Zone B1, Zone B2 and Zone B6 
1 car space per 1 bedroom dwelling; or 
1.2 car spaces per 2 bedroom dwelling; or 
1.5 car spaces per 3 or more bedroom dwelling; and 
1 visitor car space per 5 dwellings. 

In Zone B4 
A minimum of 1 car space and a maximum of 3 car spaces 
per dwelling; and 1 visitor car space per 5 dwellings. 

Note 1: Residential flat buildings on state and regional 
roads with over 10,000 vehicles per day should provide an 
additional space on site for a furniture truck. 

Note 2: All car spaces must be located behind the front 
building line.  Residential flat buildings are required to 
provide car spaces for people with disabilities depending on 
the size of the development. 

Note 3: Service and delivery vehicles can use visitor space. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Restaurants 

Bankstown CBD 
• 

Less than or equal to 100m2 of total dining, bar area:  
No requirement.  

•  More than 100m² of total dining bar area: Parking study 

required. 

Other Centres 
• 

Less than or equal to 100m2 of total dining, bar area:  
No requirement. 

•  More than 100m² of total dining bar area: 0.15 car 
space per square metre in excess of 100m². 

Outside above areas 
0.15 car space per square metre of total dining or bar area. 

Note 1: Part B5 aims to encourage small restaurants within 
existing commercial centres.  For restaurants on busy roads 
obviously oriented to passing traffic, the higher assessment 
rate applies.  The change of use to a shop or office, 
sometime in the future, would be dependent on the 
provision of additional parking. This advice will be contained 
within the determination notice for the development. 

Note 2: Drive–in take away food outlets 
• 

Development where customers park their vehicles on 
site and walk to the food outlet for service: 0.12 car 
space per square metre of gross floor area; and 1 car 
space per 5 seats. 

•  Development where customers stay in their vehicles to 
give their orders and wait for delivery: Off-street car 
spaces for “browse-room” customers; and 1 car space 
for each employee. 

•  Where a drive-in take away food outlet has a frontage 

to a state or regional road, a minimum of 30 car spaces 
are to be provided. 

Note 3: Drive–in liquor stores 
•  Off–street car spaces for “browse–room” customers; 

and 1 car space for each employee. 

•  Where customers park and leave their vehicles to 
purchase liquor, a drive–in liquor store may be 
considered as a shop.  Under these circumstances, 1 
car space per 40m2 of gross floor area will be required. 

Note 4: Total dining bar area means all of those parts of a 
restaurant, catering or reception centre where customers 
order or are served food or drink, and includes waiting 
areas. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Roadside stalls 

4 car spaces per stall. 

Secondary dwellings 

Semi–detached 
dwellings 
Seniors housing 

1 car space if the gross floor area of the secondary dwelling 
is over 50m2. 
1 car space per 2 or less bedrooms; or 
2 car spaces per 3 or more bedrooms. 
Residential care facilities 
• 

1 parking space for each 10 beds in the residential care 
facility (or 1 parking space for each 15 beds if the 
facility provides care only for persons with dementia), 
and 
1 parking space for each 2 persons to be employed in 
connection with the development and on duty at any 
one time, and 
1 parking space suitable for an ambulance. 

• 

• 

Hostels 
• 
• 

1 parking space for each 5 dwellings on the hostel, and 
1 parking space for each 2 persons to be employed in 
connection with the development and on duty at any 
one time, and 
1 parking space suitable for an ambulance. 

Self–contained dwellings 
• 

0.5 car spaces for each bedroom where the 
development application is made by a person other 
than a social housing provide, or 
1 car space for each 5 dwellings where the 
development application is made by, or is made by a 
person jointly with a social housing provider. 

• 

• 

Serviced apartments 

In Zone R4, Zone B1, Zone B2, Zone B5 and Zone B6 
1 car space per 1 bedroom dwelling; or 
1.2 car spaces per 2 bedroom dwelling; or 
1.5 car spaces per 3 or more bedroom dwelling; and 
1 visitor car space per 5 dwellings. 

In Zone B4 
A minimum of 1 car space and a maximum of 3 car spaces 
per dwelling; and 1 visitor car space per 5 dwellings. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Service stations 
including 
convenience store 

6 car spaces for each work bay; or if no work bay is 
provided, 1 car space for each employee; and 

Where a convenience store is provided, 1 car space per 
20m² of gross floor area; and 

Where restaurant with greater than 100m² of total dining/bar 
area is provided, 0.15 car space per square metre in excess 
of 100m². 

Note: For combinations of the above uses, the total 
requirement may be reduced if it can be proven that the 
times of peak demand for the various uses do not coincide. 
1.5 car space per service room. 

Development of less than 4,000m² gross floor area 
1 car space per 40m² of gross floor area. 

Developments of greater than or equal to 4,000m² gross 
floor area 
A parking survey should be carried out by the applicant, to 
assess the appropriate level of parking for developments 
greater than 4,000m² in gross floor area. 

Note 1: Council may vary the car parking requirement for 
minor alterations and additions to shops solely where the 
total gross floor area of the building does not exceed 500m2. 

Note 2: In the Bankstown CBD, Council may consider a 
planning agreement for 50% of the parking requirement for 
the purpose of public parking provided the development is 
less than 4,000m² gross floor area. 
1 car space per retail / business premises in addition to the 
off–street parking requirements for residential flat buildings. 
1 car space per dwelling; and a retail premises must comply 
with the off–street parking requirements for shops; and a 
business premises must comply with the off–street parking 
requirements for business premises. 

Note: Council may vary the car parking requirement for 
minor alterations and additions to shop top housing solely 
where the total gross floor area of the building does not 
exceed 500m2. 
1.5 car spaces per 200m² of site area; and, 
6 car spaces per work bay if servicing facilities are provided. 
1 car space per 300m2 gross floor area. 

Sex services 
premises 
Shops 

Shop top housing in 
Zone R4 
Shop top housing in 
business zones 

Vehicle sales or hire 
premises 
Warehouse or 
distribution centres 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Additional developer contributions  

2.4  Council  may  consider  accepting  additional  developer  contributions  (i.e.  to  be 
paid on top of the normal amount of Section 94A contribution that is payable) in 
lieu  of  providing  on–site  parking  spaces  for  non–residential  development  on 
land within: 

(a)  Zone  B4  Mixed  Use.  These  funds  will  be  used  by  Council  to  build  car 
parking  spaces  at  sites  identified  in  Council's  City  Centre  Car  Parking 
Strategy. 

(b)  Zone  B2  Local  Centre  within  the  Chester  Hill  Village  Centre  and  the 
Sefton Small Village Centre.  These funds will be used by Council to build 
car parking spaces at sites identified in the North West Local Area Plan. 

The  amount  of  parking  that  can  be  offset  is  up  to  100%  of  a  development's 
parking requirement under the DCP. This clause does not apply to dwellings. 

2.5  Council will only consider accepting these additional developer contributions in 
lieu of the provision of on–site parking at its discretion, and only in the following 
circumstances: 

(a)  Where  Council  is  satisfied  that  there  will  not  be  a  significant  impact 
associated with the parking not being provided on site.  Note: if Council is 
not  satisfied  in  this  regard  it  may  require  that  some  or  all  of  the  parking 
must  be  provided  on  site  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of  this 
DCP. 

(b)  That the parking spaces to be provided off site will be available for use at 
all times by the general public and that there is no expectation that they 
will  be  used  solely  by  clients  of  the  development  that  is  providing  the 
parking spaces. 

(c)  That  the  timing  of  building  the  parking  spaces  shall  be  at  the  sole 
discretion  of  Council  and  there  shall  be  no  expectation  by  the  applicant 
that the building of the car parking spaces shall be built to coincide with 
the development for which the additional contributions have been paid. 

(d)  That the amount of developer contributions to be charged is $28,000 per 
car  parking  space  as  at  the  date  that  this  DCP  comes  into  effect  and 
indexed quarterly to the CPI. 

This  amount  represents  the  cost  of  building  a  parking  space  and  is  not 
negotiable. The amount will also be reviewed annually by Council. 

2.6  The  process  for  the  payment  of  additional  developer  contributions  in  lieu  of 
providing on site car parking will be through a Voluntary Planning Agreement, 
made  in  accordance  with  Council's  Planning  Agreements  Policy,  dated  July 
2007 and amended at various times. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Parking requirements for people with disabilities 

2.7  Development should provide special parking spaces for people with disabilities 
at the rate of at least one car space per 100 car spaces provided.  Council may 
require  a  higher  proportion  of  car  spaces  for  land  uses  which  generate  high 
volumes of sick and infirm visitors such as in medical centres and hospitals. 

Calculation of parking spaces 

2.8 

In  calculating  the  total  number  of  car  parking  spaces  required  for  a 
development, these must be: 

(a) 

rounded down if the fraction of the total calculation is less than half (0.5) a 
space; or 

(b) 

rounded up if the fraction of the total calculation is equal or more than half 
(0.5) a space; and 

(c)  must include a room that is capable of being converted to a bedroom. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 3–OFF STREET PARKING DESIGN AND LAYOUTS 

Objectives 

The objectives of off–street parking design are: 

(a)  To have the location and layout of parking areas function efficiently and safely. 

(b)  To have quality and safety of parking services within the car park. 

(c)  To  have  efficiency  in  vehicular  circulation  and  connection  with  the  external 

traffic network. 

(d)  To  have  a  balance  between  parking  requirements,  visual  aesthetics  and 

pedestrian safety. 

(e)  To  have  the  design  of  car  parking  areas  incorporate  landscaping  areas  to 

minimise the visual impact. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Parking location 

3.1  Refer  to  Part  B1  of  this  DCP  for  information  on  the  location  of  garages  and 

carports in the residential areas. 

3.2  Parking  areas  for  people  with  disabilities  should  be  close  to  an  entrance  to 
development.  Access from the parking area to the development should be by 
ramps or lifts where there are separate levels. 

Minimum parking bay dimensions 

3.3  The  following  minimum  dimensions  are  generally  required  for  each  parking 

space. 

Parking 
type 
Open 
parking 

L (m) 

W (m) 

5.4 

2.5 

Aisle width 
900 
6.2* 

600 
4.6 

450 
3.7 

300 
3 

Note  1:  Width  of  the  end  parking  bays  with  obstruction  on  one  side  is  2.8 
metres. 

Note 2: All dimensions in this DCP are minimum dimensions, unless specified 
otherwise. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Note 3: All dimensions are in metres (m), unless specified otherwise. 

Note  4:  *Council  may  consider  a  6  metre  absolute  minimum  aisle  width 
depending  upon  the  site  constraint  on  a  condition  that  5.5  metre  bay  length 
should be maintained to produce a 17 metres wide parking module. However, 
Council considers 6.2 metres to be a desirable aisle width. 

Parking bay dimensions for people with disabilities and residential garages 

3.4  Parking bay dimensions for people with disabilities and residential garages are 

as follows: 

Parking type 

L (m) 

W (m) 

Comments 

Disabled (900) 

Basement parking 
and single garage 

Double garage in 
residential 
development 

6.0 

5.5 

5.5 

Diagram: Blind Aisle Extension 

3.2 

3 

5.4 

Clear door opening 
of 2.4m between 
door jambs. 
Clear door opening 
of 4.8m between 
door jambs. 

* Additional widening required if there is a 
wall or fence at the side of the last space. 
See clause 2.4 (b)(ii) of AS/NZS 
2890.1:2004 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Diagram: Apron widths for right angle access to single vehicle 
garages 

Note: Vehicles larger than the B85 need to make a 3–
point turn at the apron widths shown. The apron width 
may  be  reduced  by  0.3m  when  the edge  opposite  the 
doorway  is  a  kerb  150mm  or  less  in  height  with 
clearance of at least 0.3 m behind the kerb 

Service restriction and small car bay dimensions 

Doorway 
width (D) 

2.4 
2.7 
30. 

Apron 
width (W) 
(See 
Note) 
7.0 
6.3 
5.6 

3.5  Service provisions such as air conditioning vents or lift shafts may reduce the 
length of parking bays. However, this provision must not cause adverse impact 
on the traffic. 

3.6  Service  restriction  spaces  (not  less  than  4.2  metres  in  length)  should  be 

considered where the number of parking spaces exceeds twenty five. 

3.7  Service  restriction  spaces  must  be  considered  as  spaces  for  small  cars  as 

specified in clause 3.10. 

3.8  Development  may  include  parking  spaces  for  small  cars  measuring  4.2m  x 
1.7m.  The  minimum  dimensions  required  for  parking  small  car  are  4.5m  X 
2.3m. The number of small car spaces shall be a maximum of 10% of the total 
car parking provision. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Service bay dimensions 

3.9  Service bay dimensions for different vehicles are to be as follows: 

Vehicles 

L (m) 

W (m) 

Comments 

Small Truck 
7.0 
11.5 
Large Truck 
Articulated vehicle  19.0 
13.0 
City transit bus 

3.10  Parking layouts 

2.7 
3.2 
3.5 
3.2 

Refer to AS/ANZ 
2890.1 for 
manoeuvring 
dimension. 

Parking spaces and areas are to be designed according to the following diagram. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Parallel Parking  

3.11  Council  prefers  900  parking  which  provides  the  most  efficient  use  of  space 
with  two–way  vehicle  movement.    Where  space  is  limited,  600,  450  or  300 
parking  may  be  used  instead.    With  these  arrangements,  appropriate  signs 
must be used for drivers not to enter aisles the wrong way and reversing into 
parking spaces. 

Note:  A  parking  aisle  is  a  roadway  or  an  area  used  by  vehicles  to  gain 
access to, and to manoeuvre into and out of parking spaces.  Two–way aisles 
are prohibited for parking angles other than 900. 

Stack parking 

3.12  Council may consider stack parking in the following situations: 

(a) 

In industrial development where the users of the car parking will almost 
all be employees. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b)  Council may consider stacked parking, turn tables and lift stacks subject 
to  further  assessment  in  mixed  use  development  and  high  density 
residential flat development. 

(c)  Horizontal stacked parking for a maximum of two vehicles is permissible 
in  dwelling  houses,  attached  dwellings,  secondary  dwellings  and  multi 
dwelling housing if the residents reside in the same dwelling. 

(d)  Stacked parking is not permitted where a high proportion of the users of 

the car park are visitors or customers. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 4–OFF STREET PARKING ACCESS AND CIRCULATION 

Access driveway width and design 

4.1  The  location  of  driveways  to  properties  should  allow  the  shortest,  most  direct 

access over the nature strip from the road. 

4.2  The  appropriate  driveway  width  is  dependent  on  the  type  of  parking  facility, 
whether entry and exit points are combined or separate, the frontage road type 
and the number of parking spaces served by the access facility. 

4.3  Driveway widths for existing dwellings and extensions to the existing properties 

are assessed on their merits. 

4.4  For  new  residential  development,  necessary  clear  driveway  widths  are 

provided in the following table: 

Driveway width 
One–way 
Two–way 

Minimum Clear Width 
3.0 m 
5.5m 

Note: Refer to AS 2890.1 for access driveway width for other development. 

4.5  Driveway widths will need to be increased adjacent to parking bays according 

to AS 2890.1 to provide adequate turning circles. 

Queuing distance 

4.6  Parking  studies  are  necessary  to  determine  minimum  queuing  length  for 

developments fronting state roads. 

Use 

Queuing Distance 

Residential and mixed use  

Drive–in take away  

Absolute minimum 6m; 
Desirable minimum 7.5m 
8 spaces (each approx. 8 m long) in a 
marked lane for the exclusive use of 
drivers; plus 7 additional queue spaces 
at the end of the marked queue lane to 
be within the site. 

Note: Refer to AS 2890.1 for queuing distance for other land uses. 

4.7  The  queuing  area  between  the  vehicular  control  point  and  the  property 
boundary  should  be  sufficient  to  allow  a  free  influx  of  traffic  which  will  not 
adversely affect traffic or pedestrian flow in the frontage road. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Circulation roadway and ramp gradients 

4.8  Limiting  requirements  for  grades  on  circulation  roadways  and  ramps  shall  be 

as follows: 

Maximum Gradient  

Public car parks 

Straight ramps longer 
than 20m 
1 in 6 (16.7%) 

Straight ramps up to 
20m 
1 in 5 (20%) 

Private or residential car 
parks 
Domestic driveways 

1 in 5 (20%) 

1 in 4(25%) 

1 in 4 (25%) 

Note: Gradient of access driveway, grade change and grade transition is to be 
in accordance with AS 2890.1. 

Gradient within parking module 

4.9  The  maximum  gradients  within  a  parking  module  including  a  motorcycle 

parking area shall be as follows: 

(a)  Measured parallel to the angle of parking–1 in 20 (5%). 

(b)  Measured in any other direction–1 in 16(6.25%). 

(c)  Within parking spaces for people with disabilities-see AS/ANZ 2890.6. 

Vehicular footway crossing 

4.10  Design and construction of vehicular footway crossing is to be in accordance 

the Bankstown Development Engineering Standards. 

Internal circulation 

4.11 

‘Dead  end’  aisles  longer  than  15  metres  should  be  avoided.    Internal 
vehicular  movements  should  be  able  to  take  place  wholly  within  the  site. 
Circulation patterns which involve the use of a public street are to be avoided. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 5–OTHER CONSIDERATIONS 

Minimum headroom dimensions 

5.1  Clear headroom dimension is necessary to make sure that vehicles are clear of 
mechanical or service obstructions such as fire sprinklers, lighting fixtures and 
signs.    Following  minimum  headroom  dimension  has  to  be  maintained  in  all 
development. 

Minimum headroom 

Dimension 

Car and light vans 
People with disabilities 
Small rigid vehicles 

2.4m  
2.3m  
3.6m   

Loading and unloading facilities 

5.2  Mixed  use  development  must  provide  appropriate  loading/unloading  or 
furniture pick–up spaces.  If no provision is made for the facilities, development 
applications must provide justification why they are not necessary. 

5.3  Where  rear  lane  access  is  not  available  and  the  commercial/retail  gross  floor 

area of a building is greater than 500m2, Council requires: 

(a)  at least one off–street parking space for delivery/service vehicles; and 

(b)  additional  off–street  parking  spaces  or  a  loading  dock  depending  on  the 
size, number, and frequency of delivery/service vehicles likely to visit the 
premises. 

5.4  The design of loading docks must: 

(a)  be  separate  from  parking  circulation  or  exit  lanes  to  ensure  safe 
pedestrian  movement  and  uninterrupted  flow  of  other  vehicles  in  the 
circulation roadways; 

(b)  allow vehicles to enter and leave an allotment in a safe manner; and 

(c)  have minimum dimensions of 4 metres by 7 metres per space. 

Column location and spacing 

5.5  Columns should not be located at the edge of a parking aisle as they increase 
the difficulty of manoeuvring into a parking space.  It is also desirable to avoid 
locating  a  column  directly  opposite  a  car  door.    The  dimensions  for  locating 
columns in a short span structure are illustrated in the adjoining diagram. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Note: Refer to Appendix 6 for the design envelope around parked vehicle to be 
clear of columns, walls and obstructions. 

Safety and security 

5.6  Car parking safety can be enhanced with good visibility, security,  lighting and 

good pedestrian and car parking layouts. 

5.7  Sloping ramps from car parks, garages and other communal areas are to have 
at  least  one  full  car  length  of  level  driveway  before  they  intersect  pavements 
and carriageways. 

Sight distance requirement 

5.8  For  all  development,  adequate  sight  distance  must  be  provided  for  vehicles 
exiting driveways.  Clear sight lines are to be provided at the street boundary to 
ensure  adequate  visibility  between  vehicles  on  the  driveway  and  pedestrians 
on  the  footway  and  vehicles  on  the  roadway.    Refer  to  Australian  Standard 
2890.1 for minimum sight distance requirements. 

Pedestrian access 

5.9  Parking  areas  should  be  designed  so  that  through–traffic  is  excluded,  and 
pedestrian  entrances  and  exits  are  separate  from  vehicular  entrances  and 
exits. 

5.10  Lifts and stair lobbies should be prominently marked to help users find them 

and to increase personal security. 

5.11 

In split–level/ multi–level car parks, a stairway should be located at the split–
level,  to  provide  pedestrian  access  between  these  levels  and  eliminate 
pedestrians having to use vehicular ramps. 

Diagram: Column Location 

 A=parking space width (see figure 2.2 of 
 AS/NZS 2890.1:2004 

Parking 
angle 

30 
45 
60 
75 
90 

Minimum 
Dimension 
Y 
X 
1825 
375 
2581 
530 
3161 
650 
3526 
724 
3650 
750 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Sign posting and line marking 

5.12  All  car  parking  spaces  should  be  clearly  line  marked  consistently  as 

illustrated in Australian Standard 2890.1. 

5.13  Where  customer  or  visitor  parking  is  provided,  signposting  should  be 

provided to indicate the location of these spaces. 

5.14  Where a  one–way  circulation  pattern  is  adopted,  direction  of flow  should  be 
indicated  by  signposting  and  arrow  markings  on  the  surface  of  aisles  and 
driveways.  Segregated entries and exits are to be signposted to that effect. 

5.15 

In large car parks, means of egress should be indicated by directional signs 
which need to be shown on application plans. 

5.16  Parking  for  people  with  disabilities  should  be  clearly  marked  with  signs  and 
stencilled disabled symbol on the surface.  The space should be painted blue. 

Car wash bay 

5.17  Where residential development are required to provide a car wash bay as a 

condition of development consent, the following requirements apply: 

(a) 

(b) 

the  car  wash  bay  pavement  must  be  bunded  and  isolated  from  the 
stormwater drainage system so that car wash runoff does not discharge 
into the Sydney Water sewer system; 

the  car  wash  bay  must  be  covered  or  located  in  the  basement  and 
protected  so  that  stormwater  does  not  collect  in  the  wash  bay  and 
discharge into the sewer system; and 

(c) 

the car wash bay space may also be used as a visitor space. 

Bicycle parking 

5.18  Council  may  require  development  to  provide  appropriate  bicycle  parking 
facilities either on–site or close to the development as identified in Australian 
Standard 2890.3–Bicycle Parking Facilities. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 6–LANDSCAPING 

Objectives 

The objectives of landscaping in open–air parking are: 

(a)  To have existing trees incorporated as far as possible in order to protect them 

and also to provide shade in parking areas. 

(b)  To  have  car  parks  screened  from  public  view  by  functioning  as  a  buffer  to 

reduce visual and noise pollution. 

(c)  To  have  large  areas  soften  the  impact  of  paving  and  thereby  providing  relief 

from heat and glare. 

(d)  To  have  Water  Sensitive  Urban  Design  Principles  met  in  order  to  reduce 

stormwater runoff. 

(e)  To have safety and security as part of planting. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Landscaping 

6.1  Appendix 1 and 2 give an indication of landscaping expected. 

Trees 

6.2  Provision is to be made within the car park for planting of trees and shrubs to 
shade cars and soften the visual impact of the car park.  All landscaping is to 
be adequately protected from potential damage caused by car movements. 

6.3  Trees  are  to  be  planted  at  the  ratio  of  1  tree  per 5  car  park places  allocated. 
Species shall be selected for their ability to thrive  where compaction and de–
oxygenation are characteristic of the soils. 

6.4  No  changes  in  ground  level,  within  variance  of  300mm  from  existing  ground 
level shall occur within 3 metres of the base of the trunk or within the drip line 
(whichever the greater) of existing trees determined to be retained, whether on 
the development site or adjacent property. 

Perimeter planting 

6.5  For  proposed  car  parks  of  capacity  40  cars  or  more,  raised  landscape  island 
beds of minimum dimensions 2 metres x 4 metres shall be provided to break 
up row of cars, spaced at every 10 car places for placement of a canopy tree. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

6.6  Planting  buffer  shall  incorporate  three  levels,  being  tree  canopy,  shrubs  to 
600mm  high  and  ground  cover  understorey.    However,  if  the  parking  is  near 
noise  sensitive  areas  such  as  dwellings,  schools,  child  care  centres,  health 
consulting rooms or hospitals, height of planting buffer is to be 1.2 metres. 

6.7  For industrial development, reference should also be made to the landscaping 

requirements of Part B3 of this DCP. 

Plant selection 

6.8  All planting schedules are required to be submitted for approval by Council.  A 
list of tree species suitable for canopy planting is provided in Appendix 3 and 4. 

6.9  Selection  of  planting  must  include  consideration  of  safety  and  security. 
Preference  is  given  to  native  plants  indigenous  to  the  City  of  Bankstown. 
However, introduced species may be acceptable to achieve a special effect. 

Plant protection 

6.10  Concrete  wheel  stops  are  to  be  provided  450mm  from  the  base  of  island 
planter  beds  or  perimeter  landscape  beds  to  protect  planting  where  car 
parking is angled at 90, 60 or 45 degrees. 

Material 

6.11  Materials  for  car  park  surfaces  should  be  considered  at  site  planning  stage. 
Pervious  surfaces  should  be  considered  subject  to  hydraulic  engineering 
requirements  or  constraints.  Council  encourages  use  of  porous  pavement 
(such  as  grass  crete  or  ecoloc)  and  on–site  sub  surface  drainage  collection 
meeting WSUD principles. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 1–Parking with trees 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

26 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 2–Details of plating bed 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 3–List of non–native tree species suitable for canopy planting 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 4–List of native tree species suitable for canopy planting 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 5–Car clearance profile 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix  6–Design  envelope  around  parked  vehicle  to  be  clear  of  columns, 
walls and obstruction 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 7–Design template for B 85 car with 5.8 m turning radius 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

32 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 8–Design template for B 85 car with 8 m turning radius 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

33 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 9–State and regional roads in the City of Bankstown 

ROAD 

FROM 

TO 

Alfords Point Road 
Boronia Road 
Brunker Road 
Canterbury Road 
Davies Road 
Fairford Road  
Henry Lawson Drive 
Hume Highway 
Juno Parade 
Milperra Road 
Newbridge Road 
Punchbowl Road 
Roberts Road 
Rookwood Road 
Stacey Street 
Stacey Street 
The River Road 
M5 Motorway 
Wiley Avenue 
Wiley Avenue 
Woodville Road 
Alma Road 
Ashford Avenue 
Auburn Road 
Beaconsfield Street 
Birdwood Road 
Brandon Avenue 
Brunker Road 
Bullecourt Avenue 
Bullecourt Avenue 
Carlingford Road 
Chapel Road 
Chapel Road 
Christina Road 
Edgar Street 
Faraday Road 
Ferrier Road 
Gibson Avenue 
Greenwood Ave 
Haig Avenue 
Hector Street 
Horsley Road 
Koala Road 
Macauley Avenue 

Davies Road 
Hume Highway 
Rookwood Road 
Milperra Road 
Fairford Road 
Stacey Street 
Hume Highway 
City Boundary 
Waterloo Road 
Newbridge Road 
City Boundary 
Canterbury Road 
Hume Highway 
Hume Highway 
Rookwood Road 
Fairford Road 
Canterbury Road 
City Boundary 
Roberts Road 
Roberts Road 
Hume Highway 
Davies Road 
Bullecourt Avenue 
Water Pipeline 
The River Road 
Owen Road 
Chapel Road 
Rookwood Road 
Horsley Road 
Horsley Road 
Water Pipeline 
Canterbury Road 
Rickard Road 
Waldron Road 
Milperra Road 
Alma Road 
Railway Bridge 
Watson Road 
Brandon Avenue 
Georges Crescent 
Hume Highway 
Beaconsfield Street 
Wattle Street 
Stacey Street 

City Boundary 
Waterloo Road 
Hume Highway 
Punchbowl Road 
Alfords Point Road 
Davies Road 
City Boundary 
City Boundary 
Punchbowl Road 
Canterbury Road 
Milperra Road 
City Boundary 
Wiley Avenue 
City Boundary 
Fairford Road 
Canterbury Road 
M5 Motorway 
City Boundary 
Koala Road 
Punchbowl Road 
City Boundary 
Faraday Road 
Milperra Road 
Hume Highway 
Horsley Road 
Georges Crescent 
Greenwood Ave 
Allder Street 
Ashford Avenue 
Henry Lawson Drive 
Waldron Road 
Brandon Avenue 
Hume Highway 
River Avenue 
Hume Highway 
Uranus Road 
Auburn Road 
Canterbury Road 
Marion Street 
Henry Lawson Drive 
Water Pipeline 
Bullecourt Avenue 
Wiley Avenue 
Chapel Road 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

34 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

ROAD 

FROM 

TO 

Marion Street 
Marion Street 
Meredith Street 
Miller Road 
Owen Road 
Park Road 
Queen Street 
Rickard Road 
Rickard Road 
Roberts Road 
Sphinx Avenue 
The River Road 
Tower Street 
Uranus Road 
Waldron Road 
Waterloo Road 
Watson Road 
Wattle Street 
Wellington Road 
Woods Road 

Greenwood Avenue 
Owen Road 
Marion Street 
Hume Highway 
Marion Street 
Braesmere Road 
Beaconsfield Street 
Stacey Street 
Meredith Street 
Wiley Avenue 
Gibson Avenue 
Henry Lawson Drive 
The River Road 
Faraday Road 
Carlingford Road 
Wattle Street 
Fairford Road 
Koala Road 
Auburn Road 
Wellington Road 

Meredith Street 
MacLaurin Avenue 
Rickard Road 
Waldron Road 
Birdwood Road 
Maclaurin Avenue 
Milperra Road 
Chapel Road 
Chapel Road 
Wattle Street 
The River Road 
M5 Motorway 
Braesmere Road 
The River Road 
Christina Road 
Hume Highway 
Gibson Avenue 
Stacey Street 
Woods Road 
Carlingford Road 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B5 
March 2015 (Amended July 2016) 

35 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown 
Development 
Control 
Plan 2015 

PART B6 

CHILD CARE 
CENTRES 

 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

CONTENTS 

Section 1 

Introduction   

Section 2 

Location and Traffic Management  

Section 3 

Site Layout and Building Envelopes 

Section 4 

Energy Efficiency and Urban Design 

Section 5 

Acoustic Privacy and Management 

Section 6 

Landscaping  

Section 7 

Safety and Security  

Section 8 

Site Facilities and Services  

3 

5 

8 

12 

16 

19 

22 

23 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 1–INTRODUCTION 

Council’s statutory responsibility is to manage the orderly development of child care 
centres  in  a  way  that  gives  children  the  best  possible  start  in  life,  manages  the 
sustainability of established suburbs, and addresses community expectations. 

Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015 is Council's principal planning document 
to  regulate  effective  and  orderly  development  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.    The  LEP 
provides  objectives,  zones  and  development  standards  such  as  lot  sizes  and  floor 
space ratios. 

Part  B6  of  Bankstown  Development  Control  Plan  2015  supplements  the  LEP  by 
providing  additional  objectives  and  development  controls  to  enhance  the  function 
and  appearance  of  child  care  centres  in  the City  of  Bankstown.    The  development 
controls 
limits,  setbacks,  building  design,  acoustic  privacy, 
landscaping, traffic management, access and parking. 

include  storey 

Part  B6  generally  applies  to  land  in  the  City  of  Bankstown  where  the  zone  allows 
child  care  centres  under  the  provisions  of  Bankstown  Local  Environmental  Plan 
2015. 

Objectives 

The objectives of Part B6 of this DCP are: 

(a)  To  have  development  controls  that  regulate  the  effective  and  orderly 

development of child care centres in the City of Bankstown. 

(b)  To have child care centres support the health and well being of children, staff, 

parents and visitors. 

(c)  To  have  child  care  centres  contribute  to  the  sustainability  of  the  City  of 

Bankstown. 

(d)  To  have  child  care  centres  that  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing  suburban 

character and amenity of the locality of the development. 

(e)  To  have  intensive  trip  generating  child  care  centres  concentrate  in  locations 
most accessible to rail transport to maximise transport choice and reduce the 
reliance on cars. 

(f)  To  have  child  care  centres  provide  safe  and  convenient  access  for  children, 

staff, parents and visitors. 

(g)  To  have  child  care  centres  that  do  not  adversely  impact  on  the  safety  and 

efficiency of the surrounding road system. 

(h)  To have child care centres achieve high levels of personal and property safety 

and security. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(i)  To have child care centres achieve good urban design. 

(j)  To  have  child  care  centres  achieve  sustainable  outcomes  through  design 

including such matters as: 

(i)  Access and circulation. 

(ii)  Adherence to local context and streetscape. 

(iii)  Passive surveillance and presence to street. 

(iv)  Adaption to the existing vegetation and landform. 

(v)  Energy efficiency by providing natural ventilation and natural light as part 

of the building orientation. 

(k)  To have the long term operation of child care centres maintain the amenity of 

surrounding residents. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 2–LOCATION AND TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT 

Bankstown  Local  Environmental  Plan  2015  aims  to  concentrate  intensive  trip 
generating  activities  in  locations  that  are  most  accessible  to  rail  transport.    Child 
care centres can be significant trip generators, especially as the Children's Services 
Regulation 2004 may allow up to 90 children to attend a child care centre at any one 
time.    The  RTA  Guidelines  found  the  mean  proportions  of  children  transported  to 
child care centres by car was 94% for pre–schools, 93% for long day care and 75% 
for before/after school care. 

For  this  reason,  it  can  be  argued  that  intensive  trip  generating  child  care  centres 
should locate close to rail transport and shopping centres in the business zones. 

In  locations  that  are  not  readily  accessible  to  rail  transport,  such  as  Zone  R2  Low 
Density Residential, Council is seeking only small child care centres that would not 
be regarded as intensive trip generating activities. 

Consideration is given to having development controls that ensure child care centres 
take into account: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

The  cumulative  impacts  of  traffic  generation,  on–street  parking  and  noise  in 
residential streets. 

The impact on traffic efficiency, with the objective to maintain the existing level 
of service of streets. 

The  impact  on  the  amenity  of  an  area,  with  the  objective  not  to  exceed  the 
environmental  capacity  of  streets.    Setting  traffic  limits  (such  as  limits  on 
volumes)  is  necessary  in  residential  areas  and  neighbourhood  shopping 
centres  given  that  traffic  congestion,  pedestrian  safety  and  noise  are  primary 
concerns at these locations. 

The  impact  of  accommodating  additional  land  uses,  shared  facilities  and 
special events. 

In  some  streets  where  the  existing  level  of  service  is  poor  or  the  environmental 
capacity  is  exceeded,  any  small  increase  in  traffic  can  cause  greater  increases  in 
delay.    In  this  situation,  it  is  best  practice  to  at  least  maintain  the  existing  level  of 
absolute delay rather than allow the situation to be made worse. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have intensive trip generating child care centres in locations that are most 

accessible to rail transport. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b)  To  have  the  location  and  size  of  child  care  centres  maintain  the  existing 

environmental capacity and service levels of streets. 

(c)  To  have  child  care  centres  avoid  locating  within  close  proximity  to  another 
existing or approved centre unless it can be demonstrated that the cumulative 
impacts  relating  to  traffic  generation  and  on–street  car  parking  are  within 
acceptable limits for the area. 

(d)  To have the size of child care centres limited in established residential areas to 
ensure  this  type  of  trip  generating  activity  does  not  adversely  impact  on  the 
existing residential amenity. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Traffic management (environmental capacity) 

2.1  Development for the purpose of child care centres must not result in a street in 
the  vicinity  of  the  development  site  to  exceed  the  environmental  capacity 
maximum. 

If the environmental capacity maximum is already exceeded, the development 
must maintain the existing level of absolute delay of that street. 

Traffic management (level of service) 

2.2  Development  for  the  purpose  of  child  care  centres  must  not  result  in  a  street 
intersection  in  the  vicinity  of  the  development  site  to  have  a  level  of  service 
below Level B. 

If the existing level of service is below Level B, the development must maintain 
the existing level of absolute delay of that street intersection. 

Traffic impact studies 

2.3  For the purpose of clauses 2.1 and 2.2, development applications must submit 
a  Traffic  Impact  Study  based  on  the  RTA  Guide  to  Traffic  Generating 
Developments to determine: 

Existing conditions 

(a)  Existing  volumes  and  environmental  capacity  of  streets  adjacent  to  the 

development. 

(b)  Existing volumes and level of service of street intersections in the vicinity 

of the development. 

(c)  Existing public transport services in the vicinity of the development. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(d)  Existing  clearway  and  peak  period  parking  restrictions  that  apply  to 

streets adjacent to the development. 

(e)  Existing proposals for improvements to the adjacent road system. 

Proposed conditions 

(f)  The  proposed  amount  of  traffic  generation  and  trip  distribution  of  the 

development. 

(g)  The proposed parking provision of the development. 

(h)  The  proposed  safety  and  efficiency  of  access  between  the  development 

and the adjacent road network. 

(i)  The  proposed  safety  and  efficiency  of  the  set–down  and  pick–up  areas, 

service areas and car parks. 

(j)  The  impact  of  the  proposed  generated  traffic  on  the  environmental 

capacity of streets adjacent to the development. 

(k)  The  impact  of  the  proposed  generated  traffic  on  the  level  of  service  of 

street intersections in the vicinity of the development. 

(l)  The  impact  of  the  proposed  generated  traffic  on  road  safety  and  traffic 

noise. 

(m)  The  impact  of  the  proposed  generated  traffic  on  other  major  traffic 

generating development in close proximity. 

(n)  Whether  the  development  must  take  certain  measures  to  reduce  the 
impact  of  the  proposed  generated  traffic  to  an  acceptable  level.  
Measures may include a reduction in child care places or the installation 
of public traffic management devices at the applicant's expense. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 3–SITE LAYOUT AND BUILDING ENVELOPES 

Legislation requires child care centres to provide certain areas and facilities such as 
play spaces, sleeping rooms, toilets, kitchen, nappy change, storage, administration 
offices and circulation areas. 

Council  considers  it  necessary  to  ensure  allotments  are  of  sufficient  size  to 
accommodate 
to 
accommodate buildings, dwellings, off–street parking spaces, vehicular access and 
manoeuvring  areas,  pedestrian  access,  open  space  and  landscaping.    This 
approach to good design provides: 

facilities  and  services  plus  have  adequate  space 

these 

• 

• 

Amenity for children through the physical, spatial and environmental quality of 
the development. 

Ensure child care centres can contain the essential elements that make up the 
prevailing  character  of  certain  areas,  particularly  residential  areas  where  the 
prevailing  character  includes  the  built  form,  the  front  setback  area  and 
landscaping. 

Building envelopes must also complement the scale of surrounding buildings, noting 
that the established residential areas predominantly have a single dwelling suburban 
character.    Building  envelopes  generally  include  children  numbers,  staff  ratios, 
height and setback controls.  Applicants must note: 

• 

• 

Council recognises that larger centres have greater impacts and it is important 
to  balance  the  size  of  child  care  centres  with  the  retention  of  residential 
amenity.  It is therefore necessary to limit the capacity of child care centres in 
residential  areas  to  40  children,  to  ensure  this  type  of  business  activity  does 
not unreasonably impact on the residential amenity.  Consideration is given to 
having development controls that encourage small centres that are: 

• 

compatible with the prevailing character of residential areas; and 

•  minimise  the  impacts  on  neighbouring  dwellings  in  terms  of  traffic 

generation, on–street parking and noise. 

A building envelope is not a building, but a three dimensional shape that may 
determine  the  bulk  and  siting  of  a  building.    After  allowing  for  building 
articulation,  the  achievable  floor  space  of  a  development  is  likely  to  be  less 
than the building envelope. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  have allotments  that  are  of  sufficient  size  to  provide for  children  numbers, 
staff  ratios,  buildings,  dwellings,  setbacks  to  adjoining  land,  parking  spaces, 
driveways,  vehicle  manoeuvring  areas,  pedestrian  access,  open  space, 
landscaping and the like. 

(b)  To have the design of child care centres satisfy the needs of children and staff, 

and provides a safe environment and easy access for people. 

(c)  To  have  child  care  centres  that  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing  character 

and amenity of the locality of the development. 

(d)  To have the size of child care centres limited in established residential areas to 
ensure  this  type  of  business  and  trip  generating  activity  does  not  adversely 
impact on the residential amenity of neighbouring dwellings. 

(e)  To  have  the  design  of  child  care  centres  provide  a  reasonable  separation  to 
neighbouring properties and avoids an unreasonable sense of enclosure. 

(f)  To have a sense of openness around the play areas within child care centres. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Allotment size 

3.1  The  minimum  allotment  size  for  child  care  centres  and  detached  dwelling 
houses or dual occupancies on the same allotment of land within Zone R2 Low 
Density  Residential  is  at  least  500m2  for  the  exclusive  use  of  the  dwelling 
house or dual occupancy. 

Capacity 

3.2  The consent authority may grant consent to development for the purpose of a 
child  care  centre  on  an  allotment  of  land  within  Zone  R2  Low  Density 
Residential provided: 

(a) 

the maximum number of licensed places is 40 children, and 

(b)  

the  allotment  is  at  least  20  metres  wide  at  the  front  building  line  if  the 
number of licensed places in the child care centre is up to 29 children, or 

(c) 

the allotment is at least 25 metres at the front building line if the number 
of licensed places in the child care centre is up to 40 children. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Storey limit 

3.3  The storey limit for child care centres is 2 storeys. 

3.4  Child care centres in the business zones must solely locate on the first storey 
(i.e.  the  ground  floor)  or  the  second  storey  of  a  building  to  ensure  the  safe 
evacuation of children during emergencies. 

3.5  Facilities or activities for children aged 0–2 years must solely locate on the first 
storey  (i.e.  the  ground  floor)  of  a  building  to  ensure  the  safe  evacuation  of 
children during emergencies. 

Setbacks 

3.6  The  minimum  setback  for  child  care  centres  in  Zone  R2  Low  Density 
Residential,  Zone  R3 Medium  Density  Residential  and  Zone  R4  High  Density 
Residential is: 

(a)  5.5 metres to the primary road frontage; 

(b)  3 metres to the secondary road frontage; and 

(c)  1.5 metres to the side boundary. 

3.7  Council  will  determine  the  minimum  setbacks  for  child  care  centres  in  zones 
other  than  Zone  R2  Low  Density  Residential,  Zone  R3  Medium  Density 
Residential  and  Zone  R4  High  Density  Residential  based  on  the  setbacks  of 
the street and the surrounding buildings. 

3.8  Council  may  require  development  that  adjoins  land  in  the  business  zones, 
industrial zones or rail corridors to have greater setbacks to protect the amenity 
of children and staff from air and noise pollutants. 

3.9  Child care centres must ensure the siting of outdoor areas (such as a balcony 

or deck) and outdoor play areas avoids: 

(a)  A living area or bedroom of an adjoining dwelling. 

(b)  A road and driveway that may have noise or a possible pollution impact 

on children. 

(c)  Any other potential noise or pollution source. 

(d)  Any potential traffic hazard locations where an out–of–control vehicle may 

injure children. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Deep soil zones 

3.10  Child  care  centres  in  Zone  R2  Low  Density  Residential,  Zone  R3  Medium 
Density Residential and Zone R4 High Density Residential must provide: 

(a)  a minimum 2 metre wide deep soil zone along the primary road frontage 

and secondary road frontage of an allotment; and 

(b)  a  minimum  1.5  metre  wide  deep  soil  zone  around  the  perimeter  of  the 
outdoor  play  area,  to  act  as  a  buffer  to  the  fence,  provide  spatial 
separation to neighbouring properties and enhance the aesthetic quality 
of the space. 

The  deep  soil  zone  must  be  landscaped  by  way  of  deep  soil  plantings  and 
canopy trees. 

3.11  Council  will  determine  the  minimum  width  for  deep  soil  zones  for  child  care 
centres  in  zones  other  than  Zone  R2  Low  Density  Residential,  Zone  R3 
Medium Density Residential and Zone R4 High Density Residential based on 
the setbacks of the street and the surrounding buildings. 

Access 

3.12  Child  care  centres  must  be  easily  accessible  to  people  with  disabilities  and 
must  comply  with  the  Building  Code  of  Australia  and  Australian  Standard 
1428 Parts 1 to 4–Design for Access and Mobility. 

Car parks 

3.13  The minimum number of car parking spaces required for child care centres is 
1  car  space  per  employee  (stack  parking  is  permitted)  and  2  additional  car 
spaces for the exclusive use of any associated dwelling. 

3.14  The  siting  and  design  of  car  parks  and  driveways  must  ensure  the  safe 

movements of people and vehicles to and from child care centres. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 4–ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND URBAN DESIGN 

Good  quality  architecture  is  important.    Good  quality  architecture  requires  the 
appropriate  composition  of  building  elements  (i.e.  proportion,  unity  and  rhythm), 
textures, materials and colours.  Good quality architecture must also: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Reflect well resolved internal layouts of the various functions and uses. 

Respond  to  the  environment  and  context  particularly  to  desirable  elements  in 
the existing streetscape. 

Ensures child care centres make efficient use of natural resources, energy and 
water  throughout  its  full  life  cycle.    Sustainability  is  integral  to  the  design 
process.    Aspects  include  layouts  and  built  form,  good  orientation,  passive 
solar access principles, minimal use of mechanical ventilation, and soil zones 
for vegetation. 

Provide  amenity  for  children  and  staff  through  the  physical,  spatial  and 
environmental  quality  of  the  development.    Optimising  amenity  requires  good 
natural light and ventilation to rooms. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have child care centres promote good architectural quality. 

(b)  To  have  facade  designs  and  building  footprints  that  integrate  into  the  overall 

building form and enhance the desired contemporary street character. 

(c)  To  have  the  design,  construction  and  occupation  of  child  care  centres 

incorporate energy efficiency measures. 

(d)  To have front fences that are compatible with the building design and have a 

visually open style and attractive appearance. 

(e)  To have the size and bulk of child care centres avoid unreasonable impact on 
the living environment or residential amenity of neighbouring dwellings and the 
surrounding area. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Energy efficiency 

4.1  Child  care  centres  must  make  efficient  use of  natural  resources  and  optimise 
amenity  in  the  design,  construction  and  occupation  of  buildings  and  facilities, 
such as: 

(a)  good orientation and natural light to rooms and play areas; 

(b) 

limiting  building  depth  to  provide  natural  cross–ventilation  and  natural 
light; 

(c)  minimal use of mechanical ventilation; 

(d)  use of sun shading devices; 

(e)  preventing UV factor to open areas; and 

(f) 

ensuring the development adapts to the existing topography by avoiding 
excessive cut and fill. 

Access to sunlight 

4.2  The  design  of  buildings  should  achieve  a  northern  orientation  to  maximise 

solar access. 

4.3  The design of buildings must ensure that: 

(a)  At  least  one  living  area  of  a  dwelling  on  an  adjoining  allotment  must 
receive  a  minimum  3  hours  of  sunlight  between  8.00am  and  4.00pm  at 
the  mid–winter  solstice.    Where  this  requirement  cannot  be  met,  the 
development  must  not  result  with  additional  overshadowing  on  the 
affected living areas of the dwelling. 

(b)  A  minimum  50%  of  the  required  private  open  space  for  a  dwelling  that 
adjoins  a  development  receives  at  least  3  hours  of  sunlight  between 
9.00am  and  5.00pm  at  the  equinox.   Where  this  requirement  cannot  be 
met,  the  development  must  not  result  with  additional  overshadowing  on 
the affected private open space. 

Building design 

4.4  Child care centres with 29 children or less in Zone R2 Low Density Residential, 
Zone  R3  Medium  Density  Residential  and  Zone  R4  High  Density  Residential 
may locate in: 

(a)  an existing dwelling house; or 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b)  a  purpose–built  centre  provided  the  external  building  design  gives  the 

appearance of a dwelling house. 

4.5  Child  care  centres  with  more  than  29  children  in  Zone  R2  Low  Density 
Residential,  Zone  R3 Medium  Density  Residential  and  Zone  R4  High  Density 
Residential must locate in a purpose–built centre.  The external building design 
must give the appearance of a dwelling house. 

4.6  Development  for  the  purpose  of  new  buildings  must  incorporate  architectural 
elements  to  articulate  the  building  form  and  avoid  large  expanses  of  blank 
walls.  Architectural elements may include but not be limited to: 

(a)  Defining the base, middle or top of a building using different materials and 

colours. 

(b) 

Incorporating  horizontal  or  vertical  elements  such  as  recessed  walls  or 
banding. 

(c) 

Incorporating recessed or partially recessed balconies within the building 
wall. 

(d)  Defining  the  window  openings,  fenestration,  balustrade  design,  building 

entrances, and doors. 

(e)  Using sun shading devices. 

(f)  Any other architectural feature to the satisfaction of Council. 

4.7  Development for the purpose of new buildings must provide active frontages to 
the  streets  and  must  orientate  buildings  and  pedestrian  entrances  to  the 
streets. 

4.8  Development for the purpose of new buildings on corner allotments must: 

(a)  present each street facade as a main street facade; 

(b) 

incorporate architectural features to emphasise the corner address; and 

(c)  ensure the corner element is in proportion with the scale and articulation 

of the development. 

Roof design 

4.9  Development for the purpose of new buildings must have roof designs that: 

(a)  unify  separate  or  attached  buildings  with  a  contemporary  architectural 

appearance; and 

(b)  combine good quality materials and finishes. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Front fences 

4.10  The maximum fence height for front fences is 1.8 metres. 

4.11  The  external  appearance  of  front  fences  along  the  front  boundary  of 

allotments must ensure: 

(a) 

(b) 

the  section  of  the  front  fence  that  comprises  solid  construction  (not 
including  pillars)  does  not  exceed  a  fence  height  of  1  metre  above 
ground level (existing); and 

fence  comprises  open  style 
front 
the  remaining  height  of 
construction such as spaced timber pickets or wrought iron that enhance 
and unify the building design. 

the 

4.12  Council does not allow the following types of front fences: 

(a)  chain wire, metal sheeting, brushwood, and electric fences; and 

(b)  noise attenuation walls. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 5–ACOUSTIC PRIVACY AND MANAGEMENT 

It  is  important  to  balance  the  operation  of  child  care  centres  with  community 
expectations.   To achieve  this  outcome, Council  considers  it  necessary  to  limit  the 
capacity of child care centres if its activities, such as children playing outdoors, are 
to  harmoniously  co–exist  with  the  surrounding  residential  amenity.    This  is  the 
preferred outcome rather than resorting to noise attenuation walls. 

There  is  also  recognition  that  the  good  long  term  operation  and  management  of 
child  care  centres  can  help  to  ensure  development  continues  to  harmoniously  co–
exist with the surrounding residential amenity. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  have  child  care  centres  that  do  not  adversely  impact  on  the  residential 

amenity of adjoining dwellings and the surrounding area. 

(b)  To  have  development  that  installs  appropriate  acoustic  privacy  measures 

which are compatible with the prevailing character of residential areas. 

(c)  To have the ongoing operation and management of child care centres maintain 

residential amenity. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Acoustic privacy 

5.1  Air  conditioning,  mechanical  ventilation  or  any  other  continuous  noise  source 
must  not  exceed  the  ambient  level  at  any  specified  boundary  by  more  than 
5dB(A). 

5.2  The  location  and  design  of  child  care  centres  must  consider  the  projection  of 
noise  from  various  activities  to  avoid  any  adverse  impacts  on  the  residential 
amenity of adjoining land. 

For  the  purpose  of  this  clause,  Council  requires  development  applications  to 
submit an Acoustic Report prepared by a suitably qualified acoustic consultant 
to determine: 

(a)  existing noise levels at the identified sensitive receiver locations; 

(b) 

likely noise levels to emanate from the child care centre at the identified 
sensitive receiver locations; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(c)  whether  the  development  must  apply  measures  to  ensure  the  noise  of 
children  playing  in  outdoor  areas  does  not  exceed  10dB(A)  above  the 
background noise level; 

(d)  whether  the  location  and  setbacks  of  the  development  are  sufficient  to 

protect the acoustic privacy of adjacent dwellings; 

(e)  whether  the  location  of  outdoor  areas  should  avoid  living  areas  and 

bedrooms of adjacent dwellings; and 

(f)  whether the development must install certain noise attenuation measures 

to protect the acoustic privacy of adjacent dwellings. 

The Acoustic Report must measure the noise readings over a 15 minute period 
and  must  provide  details  of  all  modelling  assumptions  including  source  noise 
data,  noise  monitoring  positions,  receiver  heights  and  locations,  prevailing 
meteorological  conditions  during 
the 
methodology adopted along with a copy of the model input and output data. 

the  monitoring,  confirmation  of 

5.3  The  maximum  height  for  noise  attenuation  walls  and  fences  along  the 

boundary of an allotment is 2 metres. 

Hours of operation 

5.4  Council  may  limit  the  hours  of  operation  of  child  care  centres  to  7.00am  to 

6.00pm Monday to Friday. 

Management plans 

5.5  Council  must  require  the  operator  of  a  child  care  centre  in  Zone  R2  Low 
Density  Residential,  Zone  R3  Medium  Density  Residential  and  Zone  R4  High 
Density Residential to organise and chair a Neighbourhood Liaison Committee.  
The  purpose  of  the  Committee  is  for  the  operator  and  neighbours  to  resolve 
any  issues,  such  as  traffic  and  noise,  arising  from  the  operation  of  the  child 
care centre.  The operation of the Committee must ensure: 

(a)  The  membership of  the  Neighbourhood Liaison  Committee must  include 

residents who live next to and opposite the child care centre. 

(b)  The  Neighbourhood  Liaison  Committee  must  meet  at  least  four  times 

during the first 24 months of the child care centre operating. 

(c)  The operator of the child care centre must forward the meeting minutes to 

Committee members. 

(d)  The operator of the child care centre may forward the meeting minutes to 

Council for information purposes. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(e)  The operator of the child care centre may terminate the Committee once 
it  meets  at  least  four  times  during  the  first  24  months  of  the  child  care 
centre operating, or may choose to extend the function of the Committee 
over a longer period of time. 

5.6  Council  may  require  the  operator  of  a  child  care  centre  in  zones  other  than 
Zone  R2  Low  Density  Residential,  Zone  R3  Medium  Density  Residential  and 
Zone  R4  High  Density  Residential  to  organise  and  chair  a  Neighbourhood 
Liaison Committee. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 6–LANDSCAPING 

Landscape  design  builds  on  the  existing  site's  natural  and  cultural  features  in 
responsible  and  creative  ways. 
the  development's  natural 
environmental  performance  by  coordinating  water  and  soil  management,  solar 
access, microclimate, tree canopy and habitat values.  It contributes to the positive 
image  and  contextual  fit  of  development  through  respect  for  streetscape  and 
neighbourhood character. 

It  enhances 

For example, the landscaping of front yards in the residential areas is canopy trees 
and  deep  soil  plantings.    The  front  setback  area  of  child  care  centres  in  the 
residential areas must therefore contain generous landscaping to be compatible with 
the prevailing character.  Car parks and hard surfaces should not dominate the front 
setback area. 

Best  practice  guidelines 
for  early  childhood  environments  also  encourage 
appropriate  landscaping  of  outdoor  areas  to  protect  the  health  and  safety  of 
children. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have appropriate landscaping and outdoor play areas in child care centres. 

(b)  To have useable open space on the street frontage for canopy trees and deep 

soil zones. 

(c)  To  have  landscaping  that softens  the  appearance  of  buildings,  car  parks  and 

service areas. 

(d)  To  have  useable  private  open  space  to  dwellings  that  form  part  of  child  care 

centres. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Outdoor play areas 

6.1  The  location  of  outdoor  play  areas  must  allow  supervision  from  within  the 

centre. 

6.2  Outdoor play areas must: 

(a) 

locate on a land gradient that is predominantly flat; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b)  provide access to shade, particularly between 9.30am and 3.00pm during 
summer months.  This may be in the form of a shade structure or natural 
shade from trees; and 

(c)  consider 

the  surface 

treatment 

in  accordance  with  best  practice 

guidelines in early childhood environments. 

Private open space 

6.3  Where  a  child  care  centre  forms  part  of  a  dwelling  house,  the  development 
must provide a minimum 80m2 of private open space for the exclusive use of 
the dwelling house. 

Landscaping 

6.4  Development applications must submit a detailed landscape plan prepared by 

a qualified landscape architect that: 

(a)  shows  all  existing  trees  and  the  general  location,  type  and  size  of  trees 

both proposed and to be retained; and 

(b)  considers the following guidelines: 

(i) 

retain existing significant trees and under storey vegetation; 

(ii) 

trees  should  be  a  major  element  in  the  provision  of  landscaping, 
where  appropriate.    Shrubs  and  ground  cover  planting  should 
supplement these trees; 

(iii)  any  landscaping  must  use  hardy  species  with  preference  given  to 
native  vegetation  endemic  to  the  City  of  Bankstown  (refer  to 
Appendix 1); and 

(iv)  avoid  low  branching  trees  in  pedestrian  traffic  areas,  and  species 

with prickly/spiny leaves or fruit. 

6.5  The  landscaping  of  outdoor  play  areas  must  not  include  the  species  listed  in 

Appendix 2 or any of the species listed below: 

(a)  plants known to produce toxins; 

(b)  plants with high allergen properties; 

(c)  plants  with  profuse  scented flowers  or  known  to  attract  high  numbers  of 

bees, spiders, and insects; 

(d)  plants with thorns or spiky foliage and branches; and 

(e)  any weed or potential weed species. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Retaining walls 

6.6  Outdoor play areas must avoid retaining walls where possible. 

6.7  The maximum height for retaining walls in outdoor play areas is 400mm above 
natural ground level, and must incorporate a safety fence or the like to prevent 
accidental falls. 

6.8  Retaining walls must locate agricultural drainage lines: 

(a)  behind the base of the wall and at the foot of the wall; and 

(b) 

the  drainage  lines  must  connect  with  the  proposed  stormwater  drainage 
system of the development. 

6.9  Retaining walls on the boundary of an allotment must be masonry construction. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 7–SAFETY AND SECURITY 

Good design optimises safety and security, both internal to the development and for 
the  public  domain.    This  is  achieved  by  maximising  overlooking  of  public  and 
communal spaces while maintaining internal privacy, avoiding dark and non–visible 
areas, maximising activity on streets, providing clear, safe access points, providing 
lighting  appropriate  to  the  location  and  desired  activities,  and  clear  definition 
between public and private spaces. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have safety and security measures in the design of buildings and facilities. 

(b)  To have entrances that are clearly visible from the street. 

(c)  To have maximum natural surveillance to minimise the potential for intruders to 

enter a building. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Safety and security 

7.1  The  front  door  and  at  least  one  window  to  buildings  must  face  the  street  to 

enable natural surveillance. 

7.2  The street number of buildings must be visible from the street and made of a 
reflective material to allow visitors and emergency vehicles to easily identify the 
location of the building. 

7.3  Child care centres must separate the car park and any outdoor play area with a 

safety fence and gates. 

7.4  Child care centres with more than 15 children must erect (at the expense of the 
applicant) an unscaleable 1.8 metre high lapped timber fence or the like along 
the side and rear boundaries of the allotment. 

7.5  Child care centres must provide: 

(a)  safe access for children and people with disabilities; and 

(b) 

fire protection and evacuation requirements. 

7.6  Child  care  centres 

in  existing  buildings  must 

remove  any  existing 

contamination such as lead based paints and asbestos insulation. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 8–SITE FACILITIES AND SERVICES 

Good  design  responds  to  the  availability  of  infrastructure  and  optimises  amenity 
through efficient layouts and service areas. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have the design, construction, and operation of kitchens and food premises 

achieve satisfactory standards of hygiene. 

(b)  To have facilities that visually integrate with development. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Food premises 

8.1  The  design,  construction,  and  operation  of  kitchens  and  food  premises  must 

comply with: 

(a)  Food Act 2003; 

(b)  Food Regulation 2010; 

(c)  FSANZ Food Standards Code; and 

(d)  AS 4674:2004 Design, Construction, and Fitout of Food Premises. 

Site facilities 

8.2  Child  care  centres  must  ensure  the  following  facilities  are  not  visible  to  the 

street or any nearby public open spaces: 

(a)  waste storage areas; 

(b)  storage of goods and materials; and 

(c)  any clothes drying areas. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 1–Suitable plant species for child care centres 

Australian Native Species 
TREES/ LARGE SHRUBS 
Angophora bakeri* 
Angophora costata* 
Angophora hispida 
Backhousia myrtifolia 
Banksia ericifolia* 
Cupaniopsis anarchoides 
Elaeocarpus reticulatus* 
Eucalyptus ficifolia 
Eucalyptus haemastoma* 
Flindersia australis 
Leptospermum petersonii* 
Stenocarpus sinuatus 
Tristaniopsis laurina 
Waterhousia floribunda 
SHRUBS 
Austromyrtus dulcis 
Banksia 'Birthday Candles' 
Brachyscome 'Break–O–Day' ** 
Brachyscome multiflora ** 
Dianella caerulea* 
Dianella longifolia* 
Doryanthus excelsa* 
Eriostemon myoporum 
Hardenbergia violaceae* (a climber) 
Indigophora australis* 
Isopogon anemonifolius* 
Kennedia rubicunda** (a climber) 
Leptospermum scoparium 'Nanum' 
Pandorea pandorana (a climber) 
Poa labilliardieri 'Eskdale' 
Thryptomene saxicola 
Viola hederacea** 

Common Name 

Rough Barked Apple 
Smooth Barked Apple 
Dwarf Apple 
Lemon Scented Myrtle 
Heath Banksia 
Tuckeroo 
Blueberry Ash 
Red–Flowering Gum (grafted variety) 
Scribbly Gum 
Teak, Crow Ash 
Lemon Scented Tea Tree 
Queensland Firewheel Tree 
Water Gum 
Weeping Lilli Pilli 

Austromyrtus dulcis 
Birthday Candles Banksia cultivar 
Aussie Rock Daisy–Dark purple 
Aussie Rock Daisy 
Blue Flax Lily 
Mauve Flax Lily 
Gymea Lily 
Long–Leaf Wax Flower 
Happy Wanderer 
Blue Indigo 
Drumsticks 
Running Postman 
Dwarf Tea Tree 
Wonga Wonga Vine 
Ornamental Grass 
Heath Myrtle 
Native Violet 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Common Name 

Trident Maple 
Sugar Maple 
Fried Egg Plant 
Crepe Myrtle 
Tulip Tree 
Bechel's Crab Apple 
Chinese Pistachio 
Black Plum 
Flowering Plum 
Callery Pear 
Manchurian Pear 
Peppercorn 
Keyaki, Japanese Elm 

Non–Native Species 
TREES 
Acer buergerianum 
Acer saccharinum 
Gordonia axillaris 
Lagerstroemia indica 
Liriodendron tulipifera 
Malus ioensis 'Plena' 
Pistachia chinensis 
Prunus cerasifera 'Nigra' 
Prunus x blieriana 
Pyrus calleryana 
Pyrus ussuriensis 
Schinus ariera 
Zelkova serrata 
SHRUBS / GROUND COVERS 
Abutilon x hybridum 
Buxus microphylla var. japonica 
Buxus sempervirens 
Camellia japonica (various) 
Camellia sasanqua (various) 
Choisya ternata 
Convolvulus mauriticanus 
Gardenia florida 
Gardenia radicans 
Gaura lindheimeri 
Hibiscus sp. (various) 
Murraya paniculata 
Nandina domestica 'Nana' 
Osmanthus fragrans 
Pelargonium spp./ Geranium 
Photinia glabra 'Rubens' 
Photinia x fraseri 'Red Robin' 
Pieris japonica 
Rondeletia anoema 
Tibouchina macrantha 
Tibouchina lepidota 
Viburnum odoratissimum 
Viburnum tinus 
Note:  Many of the above non–native species require improved soil conditions, irrigation 
and on–going maintenance for optimum growth.  The above list is not exhaustive, additional 
species may be considered.  Planting to be determined with concession to site conditions, 
aspect, exposure, drainage and surrounding vegetation. 

Chinese Lantern 
Japanese Box 
Common Box 
Japanese Camellia  
Small–Leaf Camellia 
Mexican Orange Blossom 
Ground–Cover Morning Glory 
Gardenia 
Ground Cover Gardenia 
Butterfly Plant 
Hibiscus 
Orange Jessamine 
Sacred Bamboo 
Sweet Olive 
Geranium 
Photinia 
Photinia 
Pearl Flower 
Rondeletia 
Glory Bush/ Lasiandra 
Large Flowered Glory Bush 
Sweet Viburnum 
Viburnum 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 2–Unsuitable plant species for child care centres 

Species Name 
Brugmansia spp. 
Brassaia actinophylla 
Convallaris majalis 
Dapne spp. 

Duranta erectal, Duranta repens 
Euphorbia pulcherrima 
Euphorbia tirucalli 
Gloriosa superba 
Laburnum spp. 
Lantana spp. 
Lobellia spp. 
Malus x domestica 
Melia azedarach 
Nerium Oleander 
Oenanthe crocata 
Prunus armeniaca 
Prunus dulcis 
Prunus oersica 
Rheum rhabarbarum 
Ricinus communis 
Solanum nigrum 
Solanum pseudocapsium 
Solanum spp. 
Tabernaemontana spp. 
Toxicodendron succedaneum 
Zanthedeschia aethiopica 

Species Name 
TREES / LARGE SHRUBS 
Acacia spp. 
Acokantheria sp. 
Alnus spp. 
Betula spp. 
Callitris spp. 
Castanospremum australe 
Casuarina spp. 
Cupressus spp. 
Eucalyptus citriodora 
Grevillea spp. 
Juglans spp. 
Lagunaria petersonii 
Ligustrum spp. 
Liquidambar styraciflua 
Olea spp. 

Common Name 
Angel's Trumpet 
Umbrella Tree 
Lily Of The Valley 
Daphne, Garland Flower, Rose Daphne 
Golden Dewdrop, Aussie Gold, Sheenas 
Gold 
Poinsettia 
Naked Lady or Pencil Bush 
Glory Lily 
Golden Chain Tree 
Lantana 
Cardinal Flower 
Apple Tree 
White Cedar 
Oleander 
Hemlock 
Apricot Tree 
Almond Tree 
Peach Tree 
Rhubarb 
Castor Oil Plant 
Black Nightshade 
Jerusalem Cherry 
Potato 
Crepe Jasmine 
RhusTree 
Calla or Arum Lily 

Common Name 

Wattle spp. (various) 
Wintersweet 
Alder spp. (various) 
Birch spp. (various) 
Cypress Pine 
Blackbean, Moreton Bay Chestnut 
She–Oak spp. (various) 
Conifer Pine spp. (various) 
Lemon–scented Gum 
Grevillea spp. (various) 
Walnut 
Norfolk Island Hibiscus 
Privet spp. (various) 
Liquidamber 
Olive spp. (various) 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

26 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Poinsettia 
Populus spp. 
Prosopis juliflora 
Quercus spp. 
Robinia spp. 
Salix spp. 
Sapium sebiferum 
Ulmus spp. 
SHRUBS / GROUND COVERS 
Brunsfelsia spp. 
Clematis microphylla 
Cyclamen persicum 
Dieffenbachia spp. 
Digitalis spp. 
Grevillea spp. 
Hedera spp. 
Hippeastrum spp. 
Hydrangea spp. 
Ilex spp. 
Juniper spp. 
Lomandra spp. 
Lonicera spp. 
Macrozamia spp. 
Ochna spp. 
Parietaria judaica 
Philodendron spp. 
Raphiolepis spp. 
Spathiphyllum spp. 
Vinca major 
Wisteria sinensis 

Poinsettia 
Poplar spp. (various) 
Mesquite 
Oak spp. (various) 
Robinia spp. (various) 
Willow spp. (various) 
Chinese Tallowood 
Elm spp. (various) 

Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow 
Clematis 
Cyclamen 
Dumb Cane 
Foxglove 
Grevillea or Spider Flower spp. (various) 
Ivy spp. (various) 
Hippeastrum 
Hydrangea 
Holly spp (various) 
Juniper spp. (various) 
Mat Rush spp. (various) 
Honeysuckle (various) 
Cycads 
Carnival Bush, Mickey Mouse Plant 
Asthma or Stick Weed 
Philodendron 
Indian Hawthorn 
Peace Lily, Madonna Lily 
Vinca 
Wisteria 
Mushroom / Toadstools 
Chillies 

Note: The above plant list is not exhaustive, additional species may be considered.  The 
above list includes species as identified by the Australian National Botanic Gardens, The 
Childrens Hospital Westmead, and Queensland Govt. Health.  The planting design of a child 
care centre must consider plant use carefully, and omit any plants that are known to be 
toxic, where any parts of which can cause serious skin irritations, illness or death if taken in 
adequate quantities.  This includes leaves, seeds, fruits, flowers, bark and sap.  Planting 
design should also limit species with profuse flowers, sharp or spiny leaves, berries or 
seeds that could cause a choking hazard, or those known to shed branches in heat or windy 
conditions. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B6 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown 
Development 
Control 
Plan 2015 

PART B7 

EDUCATIONAL 
ESTABLISHMENTS  

 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

CONTENTS 

Section 1 

Introduction   

Section 2 

Site Analysis  

Section 3 

Location and Traffic Management  

Section 4 

Site Layout and Building Envelopes 

Section 5 

Energy Efficiency and Urban Design 

Section 6 

Acoustic Privacy and Management 

Section 7 

Landscaping  

Section 8 

Safety and Security  

Section 9 

Site Facilities and Services  

Section 10  Educational Establishments, Community Facilities, and 

Information and Education Facilities 

3 

6 

9 

12 

17 

21 

23 

25 

26 

28 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 1–INTRODUCTION 

Based  on  population  forecasts,  the  capacity  of  the  existing  schools  in  the  City  of 
Bankstown  is  sufficient  to  meet  population  needs  for  the  next  25  years.    There  is 
unlikely to be a need for new or expanded primary and secondary schools. 

However,  the  City  of  Bankstown  may  see  an  increase  in  the  number  of  non–
government  schools  that  are  partly  funded  by  Commonwealth  Government  grants.  
These  schools  must  find  available  land  in  established  urban  areas.    The  conflict 
between  the  development  of  these  schools  and  the  surrounding  amenity  of 
established urban areas is evident. 

Non–government schools tend to draw from a regional catchment area which means 
greater reliance on cars.  This has led to traffic congestion in streets and increased 
demand  for  on–street  parking.    Insufficient  lot  sizes  to  accommodate  enrolment 
numbers have also led to excessive building sizes and lack of play areas. 

Council’s statutory responsibility is to manage the orderly development of schools, in 
a  way  that  addresses  community  expectations  and  provides  students  with  positive 
learning  environments.    The  aim  is  to  secure  best  practice  outcomes  for  students, 
parents and communities. 

As  part  of  this  responsibility,  Council  must  consider  the  many  planning  issues 
relating  to  schools  if  it  is  to  better  manage  this  type  of  development  and  address 
community expectations. 

Based on an assessment of national and international benchmarks, it is evident the 
development controls should secure the following best practice outcomes: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

To  have  schools  achieve  good  long  term  outcomes  as  enrolments  change  to 
meet demographic needs. 

To  have  schools  respond  and  contribute  to  the  sustainability  of  established 
suburbs. 

To  have  schools  contribute  to  the  use  of  sustainable  transport  modes  for 
students, parents and staff. 

To  have  schools  minimise  the  physical  and  visual  impact  on  the  amenity  of 
established suburbs. 

To  have  schools  reduce  traffic  congestion  and  improve  road  safety  around 
school sites. 

To have schools provide good quality free play areas and sporting facilities to 
support a reduction in childhood obesity. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

• 

• 

To  have  schools  provide  high  levels  of  personal  and  property  security  from 
crime. 

To  have  schools  optimise  student  amenity  and  achieve  energy  efficiency 
standards consistent with other public buildings. 

Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015 is Council's principal planning document 
to achieve these outcomes.  The LEP provides objectives, zones and development 
standards such as lot sizes and floor space ratios. 

Part  B7  of  Bankstown  Development  Control  Plan  2015  supplements  the  LEP  by 
providing additional objectives and development controls to facilitate best practice in 
the design and function of educational establishments and other certain facilities in 
the  City  of  Bankstown.    The  development  controls  include  traffic  management, 
building envelopes, play areas and landscaping. 

Part  B7  generally  applies  to  land  in  the  City  of  Bankstown  where  the  zone  allows 
schools,  educational  establishments,  community  facilities,  and  information  and 
education facilities under the provisions of the State Environmental Planning Policy 
(Infrastructure) 2007 or Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015. 

Objectives 

The objectives of Part B7 of this DCP are: 

(a)  To  have  development  controls  that  regulate  the  effective  and  orderly 
development of schools, educational establishments, community facilities, and 
information and education facilities in the City of Bankstown. 

(b)  To have schools contribute to the sustainability of the City of Bankstown. 

(c)  To  have  schools  that  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing  suburban  character 

and amenity of the locality of the development. 

(d)  To  have  intensive  trip  generating  schools  concentrate  in  locations  most 
accessible  to  rail  transport  to  maximise  transport  choice  and  reduce  the 
reliance on cars. 

(e)  To  have  schools  provide  safe  and  convenient  access  for  students,  staff  and 

visitors. 

(f)  To  have  schools  that  do  not  adversely  impact  on  the  safety  and  efficiency  of 

the surrounding road system. 

(g)  To  have  schools  support  the  health  and  well  being  of  students  by  providing 

good quality play areas and team game playing fields. 

(h)  To  have  schools  achieve  high  levels  of  personal  and  property  safety  and 

security from crime. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(i)  To have schools achieve good urban design. 

(j)  To have schools achieve sustainable outcomes through design including such 

matters as: 

(i)  Access and circulation. 

(ii)  Adherence to local context and streetscape. 

(iii)  Passive surveillance and presence to street. 

(iv)  Adaption to the existing vegetation and landform. 

(v)  Water conservation and grey water use (or recyclable water). 

(vi)  Energy efficiency by providing natural ventilation and natural light as part 

of the building orientation. 

(k)  To  have  the  long  term  operation  of  schools  maintain  the  amenity  of 

surrounding residents. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 2–SITE ANALYSIS 

The  School  Facilities  Standards  require  a  site  analysis  to  identify  the  guiding 
principles to the development of sites.  This requirement applies to government and 
non–government schools. 

The  site  analysis  helps  to  explain  the  development  capacity  by  showing  the 
relationship of sites to the surrounding area.  This approach to good design ensures 
schools respond and contribute to the local context.  Context can be defined as the 
key natural and built features of an area.  Responding to context involves identifying 
the desirable elements of a location's character. 

From  experience,  Council  has  found  site  analysis  plans  and  studies  to  also  be  a 
useful tool to coordinate the expansion of sites over a long period of time. 

Objectives 

The objective is: 

(a)  To have site analysis plans and studies that: 

(i) 

identify the guiding principles to the development of sites; 

(ii)  demonstrate the opportunities and constraints of sites; 

(iii) 

respond and contribute to the local context and to the sustainable growth 
of the City of Bankstown; 

(iv) 

identify the staging of development over a long period of time; and 

(v)  determine the enrolment numbers of schools over a long period of time. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objective are: 

2.1  Development  applications  must  submit  site  analysis  plans  and  studies  that 

outline the short and long term proposals for the development of school sites. 

The  site  analysis  plans  and  studies  must  consist  of  a  written  statement 
(supported  by  plans  or  illustrations)  explaining  how  the  design  of  the 
development has regard to the following: 

(a)  The  education  brief  (including  curriculum  and  function  requirements)  of 

the school. 

(b)  The  overall  strategic  vision for  the  site and how  the  selection  of  the  site 

supports the urban structure of the City of Bankstown. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(c)  Staging of the school development. 

(d)  Student  enrolment  numbers  and  staff  numbers  of  the  school  at  each 
stage of the development and at the maximum enrolment capacity. 

(e)  The  patterns  of  land  ownership,  the  patterns  of  land  subdivision  or 

consolidation and the relationship of the site to adjoining sites. 

(f)  Design  principles  drawn  from  the  site  analysis  and  the  local  context 

including: 

(i)  Context and character studies. 

(ii)  Orientation. 

(iii)  Visual assessment of the site and the local context. 

(iv)  Survey of the site and neighbouring buildings. 

(v)  Flora/fauna survey. 

(vi)  Topography, drainage, erosion, cut and fill. 

(vii)  Noise  pollutants,  airborne  pollutants, 

toxic  residues  and  site 

remediation. 

(viii)  Bush fire risk and flood risk. 

(ix)  Deep soil zones and landscaping. 

(x)  Sustainability and energy efficiency outcomes through design. 

(xi)  Passive surveillance. 

(xii)  Traffic, access and parking: 

• 

• 

The  links  between  the  location  of  the  school  and  surrounding 
pedestrian,  cycle,  public  transport  and  road  access  and 
circulation  networks.    This  includes  details  of  the  internal  and 
external  movement  networks,  the  public  transport  access 
routes,  the  pedestrian  and  cycle  paths,  linkages  to  external 
networks and pedestrian through–site links. 

Assessment  of  the  cumulative  traffic  impacts  of  development 
within the surrounding road network, and the need for internal 
and  external  traffic  management  measures  to  support  the 
development  (including  cost  and  funding  responsibilities  of 
such upgrades). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

• 

• 

Staff,  student  and  visitor  off–street  set–down  and  pick–up 
areas,  parking  provisions,  bus  stops  and  delivery/emergency 
access. 

Parking provisions at each stage of the school development. 

(xiii)  Built form and aesthetics: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Floor  space  requirements  to  meet  school  curriculum  and 
function requirements. 

The function and capacity of each building and likely hours of 
operation. 

Bulk and overall unity of the development within the context. 

Urban design and streetscape guidelines. 

Distribution  of  the  land  uses,  buildings,  circulation  areas,  play 
areas,  playing  fields  for  team  sports,  fences  and  any  public 
facilities. 

Open  space  provision  and 
principles. 

function,  and 

landscaping 

The  function  and  capacity  of  the  free  play  areas,  and  the 
activities program for the use of the free play areas. 

(xiv)  Infrastructure, easements and stormwater management. 

(xv)  Outcomes of social impact assessments and any relevant feasibility 

studies. 

(xvi)  Protection of any heritage items or archaeological sites. 

(xvii) Staging of special events including: 

• 

• 

• 

Calendar dates of all events. 

Location and capacity. 

Hours of operation. 

•  Management plan. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 3–LOCATION AND TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT 

Bankstown  Local  Environmental  Plan  2015  aims  to  concentrate  intensive  trip 
generating  activities  in  locations  most  accessible  to  rail  transport.    Schools  are 
significant  trip  generators.    For  this  reason,  it  can  be  argued  that  intensive  trip 
generating schools should locate close to rail transport, especially as schools have a 
high proportion of public transport dependent students. 

Council also recognises that larger schools have greater impacts and it is important 
to balance the size of schools with the retention of residential amenity.  In locations 
that  are  not  readily  accessible  to  rail  transport,  such  as  Zone  R2  Low  Density 
Residential,  Council  is  seeking  only  small  schools  that  would  not  be  regarded  as 
intensive trip generating activities. 

Consideration is given to having development controls that ensure schools take into 
account: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Public transport and pedestrian movements. 

The impact on traffic efficiency, with the objective to maintain the existing level 
of service of streets. 

The  impact  on  the  amenity  of  an  area,  with  the  objective  not  to  exceed  the 
environmental  capacity  of  streets.    Setting  traffic  limits  such  as  volumes  is 
necessary in residential areas, neighbourhood shopping centres and education 
precincts  as  traffic  congestion,  pedestrian  safety  and  noise  are  primary 
concerns at these locations. 

The  impact  of  accommodating  additional  land  uses,  shared  facilities  and 
special events. 

In  some  streets  where  the  existing  level  of  service  is  poor  or  the  environmental 
capacity  is  exceeded,  any  small  increase  in  traffic  can  cause  greater  increases  in 
delay.    In  this  situation,  it  is  best  practice  to  at  least  maintain  the  existing  level  of 
absolute delay rather than allow the situation to be made worse. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  have  intensive  trip  generating  schools  in  locations  most  accessible  to  rail 

transport. 

(b)  To  have  the  location  and  size  of  schools  maintain  the  existing  environmental 

capacity and service levels of streets. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(c)  To  have  schools  avoid  locating  within  close  proximity  to  another  existing  or 
approved  school  unless  it  can  be  demonstrated  that  the  cumulative  impacts 
relating to traffic generation and on–street parking are within acceptable limits 
for the area. 

(d)  To  have  the  size  of  schools  limited  in  established  residential  areas  to  ensure 
this  type  of  trip  generating  activity  does  not  adversely  impact  on  the  existing 
residential amenity. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Traffic management (environmental capacity) 

3.1  Development  for  the  purpose  of  schools  must  not  result  in  a  street  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  development  site  to  exceed  the  environmental  capacity 
maximum. 

If the environmental capacity maximum is already exceeded, the development 
must maintain the existing level of absolute delay of that street. 

Traffic management (level of service) 

3.2  Development for the purpose of schools must not result in a street intersection 

in the vicinity of the development site to have a level of service below Level B. 

If the existing level of service is below Level B, the development must maintain 
the existing level of absolute delay of that street intersection. 

Traffic impact studies 

3.3  For the purpose of clauses 3.1 and 3.2, development applications must submit 
a  Traffic  Impact  Study  based  on  the  RTA  Guide  to  Traffic  Generating 
Developments to determine: 

Existing conditions 

(a)  Existing  volumes  and  environmental  capacity  of  streets  adjacent  to  the 

development. 

(b)  Existing volumes and level of service of street intersections in the vicinity 

of the development. 

(c)  Existing public transport services in the vicinity of the development. 

(d)  Existing  clearway  and  peak  period  parking  restrictions  that  apply  to 

streets adjacent to the development. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(e)  Existing proposals for improvements to the adjacent road system. 

Proposed conditions 

(f)  The  proposed  amount  of  traffic  generation  and  trip  distribution  of  the 

development. 

(g)  The proposed parking provision of the development. 

(h)  The proposed number of buses likely to service the development. 

(i)  The  proposed  safety  and  efficiency  of  access  between  the  development 

and the adjacent road network. 

(j)  The  proposed  safety  and  efficiency  of  the  internal  road  layout  including 
the student set–down and pick–up areas, bus bays, service areas and car 
parks. 

(k)  The  impact  of  the  proposed  generated  traffic  on  the  environmental 

capacity of streets adjacent to the development. 

(l)  The  impact  of  the  proposed  generated  traffic  on  the  level  of  service  of 

street intersections in the vicinity of the development. 

(m)  The  impact  of  the  proposed  generated  traffic  on  road  safety  and  traffic 

noise. 

(n)  The  impact  of  the  proposed  generated  traffic  on  other  major  traffic 

generating development in close proximity. 

(o)  Whether  the  development  must  take  certain  measures  to  reduce  the 
impact  of  the  proposed  generated  traffic  to  an  acceptable  level.  
Measures  may  include  a  reduction  in  enrolment  numbers  or  the 
installation  of  public  traffic  management  devices  at  the  applicant's 
expense. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 4–SITE LAYOUT AND BUILDING ENVELOPES 

Legislation requires schools to provide certain areas and facilities such as free play 
areas, administration offices and circulation areas. 

Council  considers  it  necessary  to  ensure  allotments  are  of  sufficient  size  to 
to 
accommodate 
accommodate  buildings,  off–street  parking,  student  set–down  and  pick–up  areas, 
vehicular  access  and  manoeuvring  areas,  pedestrian  access,  open  space  and 
landscaping.  This approach to good design provides: 

facilities  and  services  plus  have  adequate  space 

these 

• 

• 

Amenity for students through the physical, spatial and environmental quality of 
the  development.    Optimising  amenity  requires  appropriate  room  dimensions, 
access  to  sunlight,  visual  and  acoustic  privacy,  efficient  layout  and  service 
areas, and ease of access. 

Ensures  schools  can  contain  the  essential  elements  that  make  up  the 
prevailing  character  of  certain  areas,  particularly  residential  areas  where  the 
prevailing character includes the front setback area and landscaping. 

Building  envelopes  must  also  be  compatible  with  the  scale  of  the  street  and  the 
surrounding  buildings,  noting  that  the  established  residential  areas  predominantly 
have  a  single  dwelling  suburban  character.    Building  envelopes  generally  include 
height and setback controls.  Applicants must note: 

• 

A building envelope is not a building, but a three dimensional shape that may 
determine  the  bulk  and  siting  of  a  building.    After  allowing  for  building 
articulation,  the  achievable  floor  space  of  a  development  is  likely  to  be  less 
than the building envelope. 

•  Where development adjoins land in the residential zones, Council may reduce 
the  height  and  number  of  storeys  or  require  greater  setbacks  to  ensure  the 
development complies with the objectives of Part B7 of this DCP. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have schools focus on the movement of people rather than the movement 

of vehicles. 

(b)  To have allotments that are of sufficient size to provide for enrolment numbers, 
buildings,  setbacks  to  adjoining  land,  pedestrian  access,  bus  zones,  student 
set–down  and  pick–up  areas,  car  parks,  driveways,  vehicle  manoeuvring 
areas, open spaces and deep soil zones for landscaping. 

(c)  To  have  schools provide  play  areas  that  support the  health and well  being  of 

students. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(d)  To  have  the  design  of  schools  satisfy  the  needs  of  students  and  staff,  and 

provides a safe environment and easy access for people. 

(e)  To have schools that are compatible with the prevailing character and amenity 

of the locality of the development. 

(f)  To  have  schools  that  do  not  adversely  impact  on  the  living  environment  or 

residential amenity of adjoining dwellings and the surrounding area. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Allotment size in residential zones 

4.1  Development for the purpose of schools on an allotment of land within Zone R2 
Low  Density  Residential,  Zone  R3  Medium  Density  Residential  or  Zone  R4 
High Density Residential must ensure the allotment is at least 40 metres wide 
at the front building line.  This width is necessary to provide: 

(a)  sufficient  off–street  space  for  the  movement  of  all  transport  services: 
cars, bicycles, pedestrians, buses, service and emergency vehicles; 

(b)  sufficient  off–street  pedestrian  and  cycle  networks  separate 

from 

vehicles; 

(c)  sufficient  off–street  bus  bays  and  adequate  manoeuvring  spaces 

separate from all other vehicles; 

(d)  safe and direct pedestrian paths to nearby bus stops, footpaths and other 

facilities; 

(e)  safe  off–street  student  set–down  and  pick–up  areas 

for  vehicle 

passengers with separate entry and exit driveways; 

(f) 

provision  made  for  access  and  parking  of  service  and  emergency 
vehicles to service all buildings within the school; and 

(g)  emergency assembly areas for students and staff. 

Council may increase the allotment width if the school requires larger student 
set–down and pick–up areas. 

Allotment size in zones other than residential zones 

4.2  Development for  the purpose  of  schools  on an allotment  of  land  within  zones 
other  than  Zone  R2  Low  Density  Residential,  Zone  R3  Medium  Density 
Residential  or  Zone  R4  High  Density  Residential  must  ensure  the  area  and 
width  of  the  allotment  emphasises  the  needs  of  pedestrians,  cyclists,  public 
transport users and vehicle passengers by having: 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(a)  sufficient  off–street  space  for  the  movement  of  all  transport  services: 
cars, bicycles, pedestrians, buses, service and emergency vehicles; 

(b)  sufficient  off–street  pedestrian  and  cycle  priority  zones  separate  from 

vehicles; 

(c)  sufficient  off–street  bus  bays  and  adequate  manoeuvring  spaces 

separate from all other vehicles; 

(d)  safe and direct pedestrian paths to nearby bus stops and other facilities; 

(e)  safe  off–street  student  set–down  and  pick–up  areas 

for  vehicle 

passengers with separate entry and exit driveways; 

(f) 

provision  made  for  access  and  parking  of  service  and  emergency 
vehicles to service all buildings within the school; and 

(g)  emergency assembly areas for students and staff. 

Classroom size and student densities 

4.3  The gross floor area of classrooms in primary schools must not exceed 3.8m2 

per student. 

In this clause, classroom means a room in which classes meet or are taught. 

4.4  The  gross  floor  area  of  classrooms  in  secondary  schools  must  not  exceed 

5.6m2 per student. 

In this clause, classroom means a room in which classes meet or are taught. 

Building length 

4.5  The maximum building length for schools is 45 metres. 

Storey limit 

4.6  Council  will  determine  the  storey  limit  for  schools  based  on  the  scale  of  the 

street and the surrounding buildings. 

4.7  Council does not allow schools to have attics. 

Setbacks 

4.8  The minimum setback for schools (including car parks and basements) to the 
primary  and  secondary  road  frontages  in  Zone  R2  Low  Density  Residential, 
Zone  R3  Medium  Density  Residential, Zone R4  High  Density  Residential and 
Zone SP2 Infrastructure is: 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Minimum setbacks 
Primary road 
frontage 
Secondary road 
frontage 

9 metres or a distance equal to the proposed maximum 
building height, whichever is the greater. 
6 metres or a distance equal to the proposed maximum 
building height, whichever is the greater. 

This setback is necessary to accommodate the deep soil zones and footpaths 
within the front setback area. 

4.9 

The  minimum  side  and  rear  setback  for  schools  in  Zone  R2  Low  Density 
Residential,  Zone  R3  Medium  Density  Residential,  Zone  R4  High  Density 
Residential  and  Zone  SP2  Infrastructure  is  5  metres  or  a  distance  equal  to 
the proposed maximum building height, whichever is the greater. 

4.10  Council  will  determine  the  minimum  setbacks  for  schools  in  Zone  B1 
Neighbourhood  Centre,  Zone  B2  Local  Centre  and  Zone  B4  Mixed  Use 
based on the setbacks of the street and the surrounding buildings. 

4.11  Council may require greater setbacks: 

(a) 

where  development  adjoins  land  in  Zone  IN1  General  Industrial  or 
Zone  IN2  Light  Industrial  or  state/regional  roads  or  rail  corridors,  to 
incorporate measures to protect the amenity of students and staff from 
air and noise pollutants; or 

(b) 

where the school requires off–street bus bays; or 

(c) 

where  the  school  requires  vehicle  access  to  the  entry  points  of 
administration buildings. 

Deep soil zones 

4.12  Development for the purpose of schools in Zone R2 Low Density Residential, 
Zone R3 Medium Density Residential, Zone R4 High Density Residential and 
Zone SP2 Infrastructure must provide deep soil zones that have the following 
minimum widths around the boundary of the allotment of land: 

Minimum width of deep soil zone 

Primary road frontage 
Secondary road frontage 
Side and rear setbacks 

9 metres 
6 metres 
5 metres 

The deep soil zones must be landscaped by  way of deep soil plantings and 
canopy trees. 

4.13  Council  will  determine  the minimum  width  for  deep  soil  zones for schools  in 
Zone B1 Neighbourhood Centre, Zone B2 Local Centre and Zone B4 Mixed 
Use based on the setbacks of the street and the surrounding buildings. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Free play areas 

4.14  Development for the purpose of primary schools must dedicate at least 12m2 
of  site  area  per  student  for  the  exclusive  use  of  free  play  areas.    The 
minimum  size  of  the free  play  areas  must  equate  to  the  greatest  number of 
students  that  could  use  the  free  play  areas  at  any  one  time.    The  free  play 
areas  must  locate  at  ground  level.    In  this  clause,  free  play  areas  means 
outdoor useable spaces and playing fields that are for the use of students for 
physical activities and team games. 

4.15  Development for the purpose of secondary schools must dedicate part of the 
site area for the exclusive use of free play areas.  The free play areas must 
locate  at  ground  level.    In  this  clause,  free  play  areas  means  outdoor 
useable spaces and playing fields that are for the use of students for physical 
activities and team games. 

4.16  Schools  must  ensure  the  location  of  outdoor  areas  and  free  play  areas 

avoids: 

(a)  Existing native vegetation including under storey native vegetation. 

(b)  Potential  traffic  hazard  locations  where  an  out–of–control  vehicle  may 

injure students. 

Access 

4.17  Schools must be easily accessible to people with disabilities and must comply 
with the Building Code of Australia and Australian Standard 1428 Parts 1 to 
4–Design for Access and Mobility. 

4.18  Provision  must  be  made  for  access  and  parking  of  service  and  emergency 

vehicles to service all buildings within the school. 

Car parks 

4.19  The minimum number of car parking spaces required for schools is: 

(a)  1 car space per employee or classroom, whichever is the greater; and 

(b)  1 car space per 8 students in year 12. 

4.20  The  car  park/manoeuvring  areas  and  the  student  set–down  and  pick–up 

areas must locate separately behind the front building line. 

4.21 

Internal driveways must observe the following dimensions: 

(a) 

the  minimum  width  of  driveways  is  4.5  metres  (one  way)  or  6  metres 
(two way); and 

(b) 

the maximum gradient of internal driveways is 12%. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 5–ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND URBAN DESIGN 

The  School  Facilities  Standards  require  schools  to  incorporate  energy  efficiency 
measures  such  as  optimum  orientation,  glazing,  sun  control,  cross  ventilation  and 
natural light.  This requirement applies to government and non–government schools.  
This approach to good design provides: 

• 

• 

Amenity for students through the physical, spatial and environmental quality of 
the  development.    Optimising  amenity  requires  good  natural  light  and 
ventilation to rooms. 

Ensures  schools  make  efficient  use  of  natural  resources,  energy  and  water 
throughout  its  full  life  cycle.    Sustainability  is  integral  to  the  design  process.  
Aspects include layouts and built form, good orientation, passive solar access 
principles, minimal use of mechanical ventilation, and soil zones for vegetation 
and reuse of water. 

Good  quality  architecture  is  also  important.    Good  quality  architecture  requires  the 
appropriate  composition  of  building  elements  (i.e.  proportion,  unity  and  rhythm), 
textures, materials and colours.  Good quality architecture must also: 

• 

• 

Reflect well resolved internal layouts of the various functions and uses. 

Respond  to  the  environment  and  context  particularly  to  desirable  elements  in 
the existing streetscape. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have schools promote good architectural quality. 

(b)  To  have  facade  designs  and  building  footprints  that  integrate  into  the  overall 

building form and enhance the desired contemporary street character. 

(c)  To have the design, construction and occupation of schools incorporate energy 

efficiency measures. 

(d)  To have front fences that are compatible with the building design and have a 

visually open style and attractive appearance. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Energy efficiency 

5.1  Schools must comply with Part B4 of this DCP to make efficient use of natural 
resources and optimise amenity in the design, construction and occupation of 
buildings and facilities, such as: 

(a)  good orientation and natural light to rooms and play areas; 

(b)  achieving  appropriate separation  distances  between  buildings  to  provide 

natural light to rooms; 

(c) 

limiting  building  depth  to  provide  natural  cross–ventilation  and  natural 
light; 

(d)  minimal use of mechanical ventilation; 

(e)  use of sun shading devices; 

(f) 

preventing UV factor to open areas; 

(g) 

reducing  stormwater  run–off  and  promoting  the  use  of  recycled  water; 
and 

(h)  ensuring the development adapts to the existing topography by avoiding 

excessive cut and fill. 

Access to sunlight 

5.2  The  design  of  buildings  should  achieve  a  northern  orientation  to  maximise 

solar access and improve the amenity of libraries and offices. 

5.3  The design of buildings must ensure there is adequate solar access to the free 

play areas. 

5.4  The design of buildings must not overshadow any adjoining dwellings so that: 

(a)  solar access to any habitable room on the adjoining property is  reduced 
to  less  than  the  minimum  level  (being  2  hours  of  solar  access  between 
8.00am  and  4.00pm  at  the  mid–winter  solstice)  or  is  reduced  in  any 
manner (if solar access to any habitable room on the adjoining property is 
already below the minimum level); or 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b)  solar access to the principal private open space of the adjoining property 
is reduced to less than the minimum level (being 3 hours of solar access 
to not less than 50% of that principal private open space between 8.00am 
and  4.00pm  at  the  mid–winter  solstice)  or  is  reduced  in  any  manner  (if 
solar access to the principal private open space of the adjoining property 
is already below the minimum level). 

Building design 

5.5  Development  for  the  purpose  of  new  buildings  must  incorporate  architectural 
elements  to  articulate  the  building  form  and  avoid  large  expanses  of  blank 
walls.  Architectural elements are to include but not be limited to: 

(a)  Making  efficient  use  of 

floor 

layouts  and  addressing  pedestrian 

connections between the various functions. 

(b)  Providing  a  harmonious  transition  with  the  adjacent  building  form.    For 
example,  schools  should  avoid  the  location  of  tall  buildings  close  to 
boundaries in Zone R2 Low Density Residential. 

(c)  Ensuring  the  elevations  and  facade  treatments  reflect  the  internal 
functions.    For  example,  common  spaces  like  libraries  and  main  entries 
should have large openings. 

(d)  Defining  the  base,  middle  and  top  of  buildings  using  different  materials 
and  colours.   Schools  should  avoid  using  a single  colour  throughout  the 
development. 

(e)  Defining  the  window  openings,  fenestration,  balustrade  design,  building 

entrances, and doors. 

(f)  Using sun shade devices. 

(g) 

Integrating  mechanical  equipment  and  other  services  (such  as  plant 
rooms,  air–conditioning  units  and  lift  overruns)  as  part  of  the  building 
design. 

(h) 

In  the  case  of  basement  car  parks,  integrating  the  air  grilles  for  natural 
ventilation as part of the building design. 

(i)  Any other architectural feature to the satisfaction of Council. 

5.6  Development for the purpose of new buildings on corner allotments must: 

(a)  present each street facade as a main street facade; 

(b) 

incorporate architectural features to emphasise the corner address; and 

(c)  ensure the corner element is in proportion with the scale and articulation 

of the development. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Roof design 

5.7  Development for the purpose of new buildings must have roof designs that: 

(a)  unify  separate  or  attached  buildings  with  a  contemporary  architectural 

appearance; and 

(b)  combine good quality materials and finishes. 

Front fences 

5.8  The maximum fence height for front fences is 1.8 metres. 

5.9  The external appearance of front fences along the front boundary of allotments 

must ensure: 

(a) 

(b) 

the  section  of  the  front  fence  that  comprises  solid  construction  (not 
including pillars) does not exceed a fence height of 1 metre above ground 
level (existing); and 

the remaining height of the front fence comprises open style construction 
such as spaced timber pickets or wrought iron that enhance and unify the 
building design. 

5.10  Council does not allow the following types of front fences: 

(a)  chain wire, metal sheeting, brushwood, and electric fences; and 

(b)  noise attenuation walls. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 6–ACOUSTIC PRIVACY AND MANAGEMENT 

It is important to balance the operation of schools with community expectations.  To 
achieve  this  outcome,  Council  considers  it  necessary  to  seek  appropriate  acoustic 
privacy  measures  that  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing  character  of  residential 
areas.    This  is  the  preferred  outcome  rather  than  resorting  to  noise  attenuation 
walls.  There is also recognition that the good long term operation and management 
of schools can help to ensure development continues to harmoniously co–exist with 
the surrounding residential amenity. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  have  schools  that  do  not  adversely  impact  on  the  residential  amenity  of 

adjoining dwellings and the surrounding area. 

(b)  To have development install appropriate acoustic privacy measures which are 

compatible with the prevailing character of residential areas. 

(c)  To  have  the  ongoing  operation  and  management  of  schools  maintain 

residential amenity. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Acoustic privacy 

6.1  Air  conditioning,  mechanical  ventilation  or  any  other  continuous  noise  source 
must  not  exceed  the  ambient  level  at  any  specified  boundary  by  more  than 
5dB(A). 

6.2  The location and design of schools must consider the projection of noise from 
various  activities  to  avoid  any  adverse  impacts  on  the  residential  amenity  of 
adjoining  land.    For  the  purpose  of  this  clause,  Council  requires development 
applications  to  submit  an  Acoustic  Report  prepared  by  a  suitably  qualified 
acoustic consultant to determine: 

(a)  existing noise levels at the identified sensitive receiver locations; 

(b) 

likely  noise  levels  to  emanate  from  the  school  at  the  identified  sensitive 
receiver locations; 

(c)  whether  the  development  must  apply  measures  to  ensure  the  noise  of 
students does not exceed 10dB(A) above the background noise level; 

(d)  whether  the  location  and  setbacks  of  the  development  are  sufficient  to 

protect the acoustic privacy of adjacent dwellings; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(e)  whether  the  location  of  the  outdoor  areas  and  free  play  areas  should 

avoid living areas and bedrooms of adjacent dwellings; and 

(f)  whether the development must install certain noise attenuation measures 

to protect the acoustic privacy of adjacent dwellings. 

The Acoustic Report must measure the noise readings over a 15 minute period 
and  must  provide  details  of  all  modelling  assumptions  including  source  noise 
data,  noise  monitoring  positions,  receiver  heights  and  locations,  prevailing 
meteorological  conditions  during 
the 
methodology adopted along with a copy of the model input and output data. 

the  monitoring,  confirmation  of 

6.3  The  maximum  height  for  noise  attenuation  walls  and  fences  along  the 

boundary of an allotment is 2 metres. 

Hours of operation 

6.4  Council may limit the hours of operation of schools, public access to schools, 

and special occasions or events. 

Management plans 

6.5  Council  must  require  the  operator  of  a  school  in  Zone  R2  Low  Density 
Residential  to  organise  and  chair  a  Neighbourhood  Liaison  Committee.    The 
purpose  of  the  Committee  is  for  the  operator  and  neighbours  to  resolve  any 
issues, such as traffic and noise, arising from the operation of the school.  The 
operation of the Committee must ensure: 

(a)  The  membership of  the  Neighbourhood Liaison  Committee must  include 

residents who live next to and opposite the school. 

(b)  The  Neighbourhood  Liaison  Committee  must  meet  at  least  four  times 

during the first 24 months of the school. 

(c)  The  operator  of  the  school  must  forward  the  meeting  minutes  to 

Committee members. 

(d)  The  operator  of  the  school  may  forward  the  meeting  minutes  to  Council 

for information purposes. 

(e)  The operator of the school may terminate the Committee once it meets at 
least four times during the first 24 months of the school operating, or may 
choose  to  extend  the  function  of  the  Committee  over  a  longer  period  of 
time. 

6.6  Council may require the operator of a school in zones other than Zone R2 Low 
Density Residential to organise and chair a Neighbourhood Liaison Committee. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 7–LANDSCAPING 

Landscape  design  builds  on  the  existing  site's  natural  and  cultural  features  in 
responsible  and  creative  ways. 
the  development's  natural 
environmental  performance  by  coordinating  water  and  soil  management,  solar 
access, microclimate, tree canopy and habitat values.  It contributes to the positive 
image  and  contextual  fit  of  development  through  respect  for  streetscape  and 
neighbourhood character. 

It  enhances 

For example, the landscaping of front yards in the residential areas is canopy trees 
and deep soil plantings.  The front setback area of schools in the residential areas 
must  therefore  contain  generous  landscaping  to  be  compatible  with  the  prevailing 
character.  Car parks and hard surfaces should not dominate the front setback area. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have appropriate landscaping and free play areas in schools. 

(b)  To have useable open space on the street frontage for canopy trees and deep 

soil zones. 

(c)  To  have  landscaping  that  softens  the  appearance  of  school  buildings,  car 

parks and service areas. 

(d)  To have shade, windbreaks and areas for undercover student seating. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Landscaping 

7.1  Development applications must submit a detailed landscape plan prepared by 

a qualified landscape architect that: 

(a)  shows  all  existing  trees  and  the  general  location,  type  and  size  of  trees 

both proposed and to be retained; and 

(b)  considers the following guidelines: 

(i) 

retain existing significant trees and under storey vegetation; 

(ii) 

trees  should  be  a  major  element  in  the  provision  of  landscaping, 
where  appropriate.    Shrubs  and  ground  cover  planting  should 
supplement these trees; and 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(iii)  any  landscaping  must  use  hardy  species  with  preference  given  to 
native  vegetation  endemic  to  the  City  of  Bankstown  (refer  to 
Appendix 1). 

7.2  Trees  and  shrubs 

that  require 

low  maintenance  should  be  of  prime 
consideration  in  the  choice  of  planting.    Features  such  as  mulched  garden 
beds, use of perennial rather than annual plants and mowing strips reduce the 
need for maintenance. 

7.3  Development  for  the  purpose  of  schools  must  plant  a  75  litre  tree  at  5  metre 
intervals  along  the  length  of  the  Hume  Highway  boundary  to  the  allotment  of 
land, and: 

(a)  must select the trees from the list in Appendix 2; and 

(b)  should  consider  incorporating  public  art  to  enhance  the  themes  of  the 

Remembrance Driveway or business enterprise corridor. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 8–SAFETY AND SECURITY 

Good design optimises safety and security, both internal to the development and for 
the  public  domain.    This  is  achieved  by  maximising  overlooking  of  public  and 
communal spaces while maintaining internal privacy, avoiding dark and non–visible 
areas, maximising activity on streets, providing clear, safe access points, providing 
lighting  appropriate  to  the  location  and  desired  activities,  and  clear  definition 
between public and private spaces. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have safety and security measures in the design of buildings and facilities. 

(b)  To have entrances clearly visible from the street. 

(c)  To  have  natural  surveillance  to  minimise  the  potential  for  intruders  to  enter 

buildings. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Safety and security 

8.1  Development  for  the  purpose  of  schools  must  comply  with  the  Crime 
Prevention  through  Environmental  Design  Policy  in  consultation  with  Council 
and NSW Police. 

8.2  Development  for  the  purpose  of  schools  must  provide  active  frontages  to  the 
streets  and  must  orientate  buildings,  administration  buildings  and  pedestrian 
entrances to the streets. 

8.3  The  street  number  of  schools  must  be  visible  from  the  street  and  made  of  a 
reflective material to allow visitors and emergency vehicles to easily identify the 
location of schools. 

8.4  Development  for  the  purpose  of  new  schools  must  submit  a  Social  Impact 

Assessment to the satisfaction of Council. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 9–SITE FACILITIES AND SERVICES 

Good  design  responds  to  the  availability  of  infrastructure  and  optimises  amenity 
through efficient layouts and service areas. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have the design, construction, and operation of kitchens and food premises 

achieve satisfactory standards of hygiene. 

(b)  To have the design, construction, and operation of facilities and infrastructure 

achieve satisfactory standards. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Food premises 

9.1  The  design,  construction,  and  operation  of  canteens,  kitchens  and  food 

premises must comply with: 

(a)  Food Act 2003; 

(b)  Food Regulation 2010; 

(c)  FSANZ Food Standards Code; and 

(d)  AS 4674:2004 Design, Construction and Fitout of Food Premises. 

Waste storage areas 

9.2  The design, location, and screening of waste and recyclable receptacle areas 

must be to the satisfaction of Council. 

Infrastructure 

9.3  Council requires development for the purpose of schools to install the following 

core infrastructure at the applicant’s expense: 

(a)  Electricity sub–station kiosks as required. 

(b)  Connection  to  and  capacity  of  existing  water  and  sewerage  services  in 

accordance with Sydney Water requirements. 

(c)  Construction  of  the  following  works,  at  the  applicant's  expense,  where 

these are presently inadequate or do not exist: 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

26 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(i) 

full width commercial vehicular crossings at all entry and exit points; 

(ii)  bus bays (minimum length is 18 metres per bay); 

(iii)  concrete footpaths at least 1.22 metres wide over the full frontage(s) 
of  the  site  and  connecting  to  the  nearest  footpath  network  or  road 
intersection (turf planting is to occur in the remaining footpath area); 

(iv)  concrete kerb and gutter over the full frontage(s) of the site; and 

(v) 

road shoulder pavement over the full frontage(s) of the site. 

(d)  Stormwater  drainage  disposal  from  the  site  in  accordance  with  the 
Bankstown  Development  Engineering  Standards  Policy.    Drainage 
easements, as may be necessary over adjoining downstream properties, 
are to be created prior to granting development consent. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 10–EDUCATIONAL ESTABLISHMENTS, COMMUNITY FACILITIES, 
AND INFORMATION AND EDUCATION FACILITIES 

This section applies to educational establishments (other than schools), community 
facilities,  and  information  and  education  facilities  on  land  within  Zone  R2  Low 
Density  Residential,  Zone  R3  Medium  Density  Residential  and  Zone  R4  High 
Density  Residential.    These  establishments  and  facilities  generally  operate  as 
commercial activities and should not adversely impact on the prevailing character of 
the area or the amenity of neighbouring dwellings. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To regulate specific types of development. 

(b)  To have educational establishments, community facilities, and information and 
education  facilities  that  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing  character  and 
amenity of the locality of the area. 

(c)  To have educational establishments, community facilities, and information and 
education  facilities  that  do  not  adversely  impact  on  the  residential  amenity  of 
neighbouring dwellings and the surrounding area. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

10.1  In determining development applications that relate to land within Zone R2 Low 
Density  Residential,  Zone  R3  Medium  Density  Residential  and  Zone  R4  High 
Density  Residential,  the  consent  authority  must  take  into  consideration  the 
following matters: 

(a)  whether any proposed building is compatible with the height, scale, siting 
and  character  of  existing  residential  development  within  the  adjoining 
residential zone; 

(b)  whether any goods, plant, equipment and other material used in carrying 
out  the  proposed  development  will  be  stored  or  suitably  screened  from 
residential development; 

(c)  whether the proposed development will maintain reasonable solar access 
to  residential  development  between  the  hours  of  8.00am  and  4.00pm  at 
the mid–winter solstice; 

(d)  whether noise generation from fixed sources or motor vehicles associated 
with  the  proposed  development  will  be  effectively  insulated  or  otherwise 
minimised; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(e)  whether  the  proposed  development  will  otherwise  cause  nuisance  to 
residents,  by  way  of  hours  of  operation,  traffic  movement,  parking, 
headlight glare, security lighting, fumes, gases, smoke, dust or odours, or 
the like; and 

(f)  whether any windows or balconies facing residential areas will be treated 
to avoid overlooking of private yard space or windows in residences. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1–Suggested species for native landscaping purposes 

Local Indigenous Species  Common Name 

Preferred Soil 

Acacia falcata 
Acacia longifolia 
Acacia suaveolens 
Acacia terminalis 
Acacia ulicifolia 
Billardiera scandens 
Breynia oblongifolia 
Bursaria spinosa 
Callistemon linearis 
Callistemon salignus 
Carex appressa 
Clematis aristata 
Clematis glycinoides 
Clerodendrum tomentosum 
Correa reflexa 
Crinum pedunculatum 
Danthonia tenuior 
Dianella caerulea 
Dianella longifolia 
Dianella revoluta 
Dichelachne micrantha 
Dodonaea triquetra 
Echinopogon caespitosus 
Einadia hastata 
Eragrostis brownii 
Eriostemon myoporoides 
Eustrephus latifolius 
Gonocarpus teucrioides 
Goodenia bellidifolia 
Grevillea sericea 
Hakea sericea 
Hardenbergia violacea 
Hibbertia aspera 
Imperata cylindrica 
Indigofera australis 
Juncus usitatus 
Kennedia rubicunda 
Kunzea ambigua 
Leptospermum 
polygalifolium 
Leptospermum trinervium 
Lomandra longifolia 
Melaleuca nodosa 
Melaleuca thymifolia 
Microlaena stipoides 
Oplismenus imbecilis 

Sickle Wattle 
Sydney Golden Wattle 
Sweet Scented Wattle 
Sunshine Wattle 
Prickly Moses 
Climbing Apple Berry 
Coffee Brush 
Blackthorn 
Narrow–leaf Bottlebrush 
Willow Bottlebrush 
Tussock Sedge 
Old Man's Beard 
Traveller's Joy 
Hairy Clerodendrum 
Common Correa 
Swamp Lily 
Wallaby Grass 
Paroo Lily 
Pale Flax Lily 
Black–anther Flax Lily 
Short–hair Plume Grass 
Common Hop Bush 
Hedgehog Grass 
Saloop Saltbush 
Brown's Lovegrass 
Long–leaf Wax Flower 
Wombat Berry 
Raspwort 
Rocket Goodenia 
Pink Spider Flower 
Silky Hakea 
Purple Twining Pea 
Rough Guinea–flower 
Blady Grass 
Native Indigo 
Tussock Rush 
Dusty Coral Pea 
Tick Bush 
Yellow Tea Tree 

Flaky–barked Tea Tree 
Spiny–headed Mat–rush 
Ball Honey Myrtle 
Claw Honey Myrtle 
Weeping Meadow Grass 
Basket Grass 

Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay/Sand 
Clay 
Clay/Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Alluvial 
Sand 
Alluvial 
Sand 
Clay 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay/Sand 
Sand 
Clay/Sand 
Sand/Shale 
Sand 
Sand/Shale 
Alluvial 
Clay 
Sand 
Sand 

Sand 
Clay/Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Local Indigenous Species  Common Name 

Preferred Soil 

Sand 
Clay 
Alluvial 
Alluvial 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay 
Alluvial 
Alluvial 
Sand 
Preferred Soil 

Sand/Clay* 

Sand* 

Ozothamnus diosmifolius 
Pandorea pandorana 
Persicaria decipiens 
Persicaria lapathifolia 
Petrophile pulchella 
Pimelea linifolia 
Plectranthus parviflorus 
Polyscias sambucifolia 
Pomax umbellata 
Pultenaea villosa 
Rubus parviflorus 
Trighlochin striatum 
Triglochin procerum 
Viola hederacea 
Australian Native Trees 

White Dogwood 
Wonga Wonga Vine 
Slender Knotweed 
Pale Knotweed 
Conesticks 
Slender Rice Flower 
Cockspur Flower 
Elderberry Panax 
Pomax 
Bronze Bush Pea 
Native Raspberry 
Streaked Arrowgrass 
Water Ribbons 
Native Violet 
Common Name 

Myall Wattle 
Lilli Pilli 
Smooth Barked Apple 
Lemon Scented Myrtle 
Flowering Myrtle 
Old Man Banksia 
Kurrajong 
Crimson Bottlebrush 
Green Bottlebrush 
Weeping Bottlebrush 

Acacia binervia 
Acmena smithii 
Angophora costata 
Backhousia citriodora 
Backhousia floribunda 
Banksia serrata 
Brachychiton populneum 
Callistemon citrinus 
Callistemon pinifolius 
Callistemon viminalis 
Ceratapetalum gummiferum  Christmas Bush 
Elaeocarpus reticulatus 
Eucalyptus eugenioides 
Eucalyptus fibrosa 
Eucalyptus gummifera 
Eucalyptus haemastoma 
Eucalyptus longifolia 
Eucalyptus moluccana 
Eucalyptus resinifera  
Eucalyptus sideroxylon 
Eucalyptus tereticornis 
Flindersia australis 
Glochidion ferdinandii 
Harpullia pendula 
Hymenosporum flavum 
Leptospermum petersonii 
Lophostemon conferta 
Melaleuca decora 
Melaleuca linariifolia 
Pittosporum revolutum 

Blueberry Ash 
Thin Leaf Stringybark 
Broad Leaf Ironbark 
Red bloodwood 
Scribbly Gum 
Woollybutt 
Grey Box 
Red Mahogany 
Mugga Ironbark 
Forest Redgum 
Australian Teak/ Crows Ash 
Cheese Tree 
Tulipwood 
Native Frangipani 
Lemon Scented Tea Tree 
Brushbox 
White Feather Honey Myrtle  Clay* 
Narrow Leaf Paperbark 
Clay* 
Yellow/ Rough Fruit 
Pittosporum 
Diamond Leaf Pittosporum 
Illawarra Plum 

Pittosporum rhombifolium 
Podocarpus elatus 

Sand* 
Clay* 
Clay* 
Sand* 
Sand* 
Clay* 
Clay* 
Sand/Clay* 
Clay* 
Clay* 

Sand/Clay* 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Sand/Clay* 

Queensland Firewheel Tree 
Turpentine 
Small Leaf Lilli Pilli 
Brush Cherry 
Blue Lilli Pilli 
Water Gum 
Weeping Lilli Pilli 

Stenocarpus sinuatus 
Syncarpia glomulifera 
Syzygium luehmannii 
Syzygium paniculatum 
Syzygium oleosum 
Tristaniopsis laurina 
Waterhousia floribunda 
* Asterix denotes plant species native to Bankstown area.  Note: Plants listed will benefit 
from improved garden soil conditions, irrigation and ongoing maintenance.  The above plant 
list is not exhaustive, additional species may be considered.  Planting to be determined with 
concession to site conditions, aspect, exposure, drainage and surrounding vegetation. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

32 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 2–Suitable trees on the Hume Highway 

Australian Native Species  Common Name 

Preferred Soil 

sand / clay 
Improved soil conditions 
composted garden soil 

s* 

s* 

Lilli Pilli 
Smooth Barked Apple 
Illawarra Flame Tree 
Tuckeroo 
Blueberry Ash 
Blue Box 
Scribbly Gum 
Spotted Gum 
Grey Box 
Australian Teak/ Crows Ash 
Tulipwood 
Lemon Scented Tea Tree 
Brushbox 
Queensland Firewheel Tree 
Turpentine 
Small Leaf Lilli Pilli 
Water Gum 

Acmena smithii 
Angophora costata 
Brachychiton acerifolius 
Cupaniopsis anarchoides 
Elaeocarpus reticulatus 
Eucalyptus beaureana 
Eucalyptus haemastoma 
Eucalyptus maculata 
Eucalyptus moluccana 
Flindersia australis 
Harpullia pendula 
Leptospermum petersonii 
Lophostemon conferta 
Stenocarpus sinuatus 
Syncarpia glomulifera 
Syzygium luehmannii 
Tristaniopsis laurina 
* Asterix denotes plant species native to Bankstown area.  Note: Plants listed will benefit 
from improved garden soil conditions, irrigation and ongoing maintenance.  The above plant 
list is not exhaustive, additional species may be considered.  Planting to be determined with 
concession to site conditions, aspect, exposure, drainage and surrounding vegetation. 
Non–Native Species 

Common Name 

s/c* 

s/c* 

c* 

Preferred Soil– 
Improved Organic 

Gordonia axillaris 
Jacaranda mimosaefolia 
Koelreutaria paniculata 
Lagerstroemia indica 
Liriodendron tulipifera 
Magnolia grandiflora 
Platanus cuniata 
Platanus x hybrida 
Pyrus calleryana 
Pyrus ussuriensis 
Sapium sebiferum 
Ulmus parvifolia 
Zelkova serrata 

Gordonia 
Jacaranda 
Pride Of China 
Crepe Myrtle 
Tulip Tree 
Bull Bay Magnolia 
Cut–Leaf Plane 
London Plane 
Callery Pear 
Manchurian Pear 
Chinese Tallowood 
Chinese Elm 
Japanese Elm, Keyaki 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B7 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

33 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown 
Development 
Control 
Plan 2015 

PART B8 

PLACES OF 
PUBLIC WORSHIP 

 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

CONTENTS 

Section 1 

Introduction   

Section 2 

Site Analysis  

Section 3 

Location and Traffic Management  

Section 4 

Lot Sizes and Building Envelopes  

Section 5 

Energy Efficiency and Urban Design 

Section 6 

Access and Parking  

Section 7 

Acoustic Privacy and Management 

Section 8  Open Space and Landscaped Areas 

Section 9 

Ancillary Uses 

Section 10  Site Facilities and Services  

Section 11  Safety and Security  

3 

5 

8 

12 

16 

19 

20 

23 

26 

28 

29 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 1–INTRODUCTION 

Based  on  population  forecasts,  the  City  of  Bankstown  may  see  an  increase  in  the 
number  of  places  of  public  worship.    These  places  of  public  worship  must  find 
available land in established urban areas.  The conflict between the development of 
these  places  of  public  worship  and  the  surrounding  amenity  of  established  urban 
areas is evident. 

Places of public worship tend to draw from a regional catchment area which means 
greater reliance on cars.  This has led to traffic congestion in streets and increased 
demand  for  on–street  parking.    Insufficient  lot  sizes  have  also  led  to  excessive 
building sizes. 

Council’s statutory responsibility is to manage the orderly development of places of 
public  worship,  in  a  way  that  addresses  community  expectations.    As  part  of  this 
responsibility, Council must consider the many planning issues relating to places of 
public  worship  if  it  is  to  better  manage  this  type  of  development  and  address 
community expectations. 

Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015 is Council's principal planning document 
to  regulate  effective  and  orderly  development  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.    The  LEP 
provides  objectives,  zones  and  development  standards  such  as  lot  sizes  and  floor 
space ratios. 

Part  B8  of  Bankstown  Development  Control  Plan  2015  supplements  the  LEP  by 
providing  additional  objectives  and  development  controls  to  enhance  the  function 
and appearance of places of public worship (either by the erection of a new building, 
or extensions to and/or occupation of an existing building) in the City of Bankstown.  
In particular, it aims to protect the amenity of residential areas by limiting the scale 
of development within Zone R2 Low Density Residential. 

Part  B8  generally  applies  to  land  in  the  City  of  Bankstown  where  the  zone  allows 
places  of  public  worship  under  the  provisions  of  Bankstown  Local  Environmental 
Plan 2015.  Part B8 does not apply to educational establishments, except for those 
places  within  an  educational  establishment  that  are  to  be  used  for  regular  public 
worship. 

Objectives 

The objectives of Part B8 of this DCP are: 

(a)  To  have  development  controls  that  regulate  the  effective  and  orderly 

development of places of public worship in the City of Bankstown. 

(b)  To ensure places of public worship contribute to the sustainability of the City of 

Bankstown. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(c)  To encourage places of public worship to be located in areas with good access 

and public transport. 

(d)  To  have  places  of  public  worship  minimise  the  physical  and  visual  impact  on 

the amenity of established suburbs. 

(e)  To  protect  the  amenity  of  development  in  the  vicinity  of  places  of  public 

worship, and in particular residential areas. 

(f)  To ensure places of public worship do not adversely impact on the safety and 

efficiency of the surrounding road system. 

(g)  To  ensure  the  long  term  operation  of  places  of  public  worship  maintain  the 

amenity of surrounding residents and employment areas.  

(h)  To ensure the bulk, scale, height and character of places of public worship are 
compatible with the predominant characteristics of existing development in the 
surrounding area. 

(i)  To enhance perceptions of public safety; and ensure buildings and places are 

designed to minimise the opportunities for criminal and anti–social behaviour. 

(j)  To ensure the development assessment process for a proposed place of public 

worship is consistent, fair and accessible to all religious groups. 

Definitions 

For the purposes of Part B8: 

Ancillary  use  means  administration  offices,  community 
kitchens, libraries, or other uses directly associated with a place of public worship. 

facilities,  dwellings, 

Assembly area means the sum of that portion of the gross floor area of a building to 
be used for public assembly for the purpose of worship or other purposes and any 
outdoor  area  that  may  be  used  for  public  assembly  for  the  purpose  of  worship  or 
other  purposes.    It  includes  halls;  mezzanines;  secondary  areas  of  assembly  such 
as  choir  or musicians'  areas,  altar  areas  confessional  areas,  podiums,  staging  and 
the  like;  rooms  used  for  religious  instruction;  and  rooms  and  any  outdoor  areas 
capable  of  being  used  for  overspill  accommodation  of  the  congregation  during  a 
worship  service.    Ancillary  areas  such  as  kitchens,  toilets,  washrooms  and 
residential  accommodation,  which  are  not  normally  used  for  worship,  are  not 
considered to be part of the assembly area. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 2–SITE ANALYSIS 

The  site  analysis  helps  to  explain  the  development  capacity  by  showing  the 
relationship of sites to the surrounding area.  This approach to good design ensures 
places of public worship respond and contribute to the local context.  Context can be 
defined  as  the  key  natural  and  built  features  of  an  area.    Responding  to  context 
involves identifying the desirable elements of a location's character. 

From  experience,  Council  has  found  site  analysis  plans  and  studies  to  also  be  a 
useful tool to coordinate the expansion of sites over a long period of time. 

Objectives 

The objective is: 

(a)  To have site analysis plans and studies that: 

(i) 

identify the guiding principles to the development of sites; 

(ii)  demonstrate the opportunities and constraints of sites; 

(iii) 

respond and contribute to the local context and to the sustainable growth 
of the City of Bankstown; and 

(iv) 

identify the staging of development over a long period of time. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objective are: 

2.1  Development  applications  must  submit  site  analysis  plans  and  studies  that 

outline the short and long term proposals for the development of sites. 

The  site  analysis  plans  and  studies  must  consist  of  a  written  statement 
(supported  by  plans  or  illustrations)  explaining  how  the  design  of  the 
development has regard to the following: 

(a)  The  overall  strategic  vision for  the  site and how  the  selection  of  the  site 

supports the urban structure of the City of Bankstown. 

(b)  Staging of the development of the place of public worship. 

(c)  The  patterns  of  land  ownership,  the  patterns  of  land  subdivision  or 

consolidation and the relationship of the site to adjoining sites. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(d)  Design  principles  drawn  from  the  site  analysis  and  the  local  context 

including: 

(i)  Context and character studies. 

(ii)  Orientation. 

(iii)  Visual assessment of the site and the local context. 

(iv)  Survey of the site and neighbouring buildings. 

(v)  Flora/fauna survey. 

(vi)  Topography, drainage, erosion, cut and fill. 

(vii)  Noise  pollutants,  airborne  pollutants, 

toxic  residues  and  site 

remediation. 

(viii)  Bush fire risk and flood risk. 

(ix)  Deep soil zones and landscaping. 

(x)  Sustainability and energy efficiency outcomes through design. 

(xi)  Passive surveillance. 

(xii)  Traffic, access and parking: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

The  links  between  the  location  of  the  place  of  public  worship 
and  surrounding  pedestrian,  cycle,  public  transport  and  road 
access  and  circulation  networks.    This  includes  details  of  the 
internal and external movement networks, the public transport 
access  routes,  the  pedestrian  and  cycle  paths,  linkages  to 
external networks and pedestrian through–site links. 

Assessment  of  the  cumulative  traffic  impacts  of  development 
within the surrounding road network, and the need for internal 
and  external  traffic  management  measures  to  support  the 
development  (including  cost  and  funding  responsibilities  of 
such upgrades). 

Visitor  off–street  set–down  and  pick–up  areas,  parking 
provisions, bus stops and delivery/emergency access. 

Parking provisions at each stage of the development. 

(xiii)  Built form and aesthetics: 

• 

Floor space requirements to meet function requirements. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

The function and capacity of each building and likely hours of 
operation. 

Bulk and overall unity of the development within the context. 

Urban design and streetscape guidelines. 

Distribution  of  the  land  uses,  buildings,  circulation  areas, 
fences and any public facilities. 

Open  space  provision  and 
principles. 

function,  and 

landscaping 

(xiv)  Infrastructure, easements and stormwater management. 

(xv)  Outcomes of social impact assessments and any relevant feasibility 

studies. 

(xvi)  Protection of any heritage items or archaeological sites. 

(xvii) Staging of special events including: 

•  Calendar dates of all events. 

•  Location and capacity. 

•  Hours of operation. 

•  Management plan. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 3–LOCATION AND TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT 

Bankstown  Local  Environmental  Plan  2015  aims  to  concentrate  intensive  trip 
generating activities in locations most accessible to rail transport.  Places of public 
worship  are  significant  trip  generators.    For  this  reason,  it  can  be  argued  that 
intensive  trip  generating  places  of  public  worship  should  locate  close  to  rail 
transport. 

Council  also  recognises  that  larger  places  of  public  worship  have  greater  impacts 
and it is important to balance the size of places of public worship with the retention 
of  residential  amenity.    In  locations  that are not  readily  accessible to  rail  transport, 
such  as  the  residential  and  industrial  zones,  Council  is  seeking  places  of  public 
worship that would not be regarded as intensive trip generating activities. 

Consideration is given to having development controls that ensure places of public 
worship take into account: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Public transport and pedestrian movements. 

The impact on traffic efficiency, with the objective to maintain the existing level 
of service of streets. 

The  impact  on  the  amenity  of  an  area,  with  the  objective  not  to  exceed  the 
environmental  capacity  of  streets.    Setting  traffic  limits  such  as  volumes  is 
necessary  in  and  around  residential  areas  as  traffic  congestion,  pedestrian 
safety and noise are primary concerns at these locations. 

The  impact  of  accommodating  additional  land  uses,  shared  facilities  and 
special events. 

In  some  streets  where  the  existing  level  of  service  is  poor  or  the  environmental 
capacity  is  exceeded,  any  small  increase  in  traffic  can  cause  greater  increases  in 
delay.    In  this  situation,  it  is  best  practice  to  at  least  maintain  the  existing  level  of 
absolute delay rather than allow the situation to be made worse. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To maintain the amenity and character of residential areas. 

(b)  To  ensure  the  size  of  site  is  suitable  to  accommodate  a  place  of  public 

worship. 

(c)  To  ensure  the  most  suitable  location  is  achieved,  by  consideration  of  the 

physical constraints of the site. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(d)  To  encourage  intensive  trip  generating  places  of  public  worship  in  locations 

most accessible to rail transport. 

(e)  To  ensure  the  location  and  size  of  places  of  public  worship  maintain  the 

existing environmental capacity and service levels of streets. 

(f)  To  avoid  places  of  public  worship  locating  within  close  proximity  to  another 
existing or approved place of public worship unless it can be demonstrated that 
the cumulative impacts relating to traffic generation and on–street parking are 
within acceptable limits for the area. 

(g)  To limit the size of places of public worship in and in the vicinity of established 
residential  areas  to  ensure  this  type  of  trip  generating  activity  does  not 
adversely impact on the existing residential amenity. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Location 

3.1 

3.2 

The proposed development must maintain the general amenity of the area. 

The  proposed  development  must  optimise  the  use  of  surrounding  and 
potential infrastructure, with a particular emphasis on public transport. 

General restrictions on development 

3.3  A place of public worship may not be within reasonable view of a sex services 
premises  (‘reasonable  view’  shall  be  determined  taking  into  account  factors 
such  as  topography,  vegetation,  signage,  intervening  development  and 
similar factors). 

3.4 

The boundary of a place of public worship should not be within a 100 metre 
radius of a sex services premises. 

Traffic management–environmental capacity 

3.5  Development  for  the  purpose  of  places  of  public  worship  must  not  result  in  a 
street  in  the  vicinity  of  the  development  site  to  exceed  the  environmental 
capacity  maximum.    If  the  environmental  capacity  maximum  is  already 
exceeded, the development must maintain the existing level of absolute delay 
of that street. 

This  clause  applies  to  places  of  public  worship  in  the  residential  zones,  the 
special use zone and the industrial zones. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Traffic management–level of service 

3.6  Development  for  the  purpose  of  places  of  public  worship  must  not  result  in  a 
street  intersection  in  the  vicinity  of  the  development  site  to  have  a  level  of 
service  below  Level  B.    If  the  existing  level  of  service  is  below  Level  B,  the 
development  must  maintain  the  existing  level  of  absolute  delay  of  that  street 
intersection. 

This  clause  applies  to  places  of  public  worship  in  the  residential  zones,  the 
special use zone and the industrial zones. 

Traffic impact studies 

3.7  Development  applications  must  submit  a  Traffic  Impact  Study  based  on  the 

RTA Guide to Traffic Generating Developments to determine: 

Existing conditions 

(a)  Existing  volumes  and  environmental  capacity  of  streets  adjacent  to  the 

development. 

(b)  Existing volumes and level of service of street intersections in the vicinity 

of the development. 

(c)  Existing public transport services in the vicinity of the development. 

(d)  Existing  clearway  and  peak  period  parking  restrictions  that  apply  to 

streets adjacent to the development. 

(e)  Existing proposals for improvements to the adjacent road system. 

Proposed conditions 

(f)  The  proposed  amount  of  traffic  generation  and  trip  distribution  of  the 

development. 

(g)  The proposed parking provision of the development. 

(h)  The proposed number of buses likely to service the development. 

(i)  The  proposed  safety  and  efficiency  of  access  between  the  development 

and the adjacent road network. 

(j)  The  proposed  safety  and  efficiency  of  the  internal  road  layout  including 

the set–down and pick–up areas, bus bays, service areas and car parks. 

(k)  The  impact  of  the  proposed  generated  traffic  on  the  environmental 

capacity of streets adjacent to the development. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(l)  The  impact  of  the  proposed  generated  traffic  on  the  level  of  service  of 

street intersections in the vicinity of the development. 

(m)  The  impact  of  the  proposed  generated  traffic  on  road  safety  and  traffic 

noise. 

(n)  The  impact  of  the  proposed  generated  traffic  on  other  major  traffic 

generating development in close proximity. 

(o)  Whether  the  development  must  take  certain  measures  to  reduce  the 
impact  of  the  proposed  generated  traffic  to  an  acceptable  level.  
Measures  may  include  a  reduction  in  the  size  of  assembly  areas  or  the 
installation  of  public  traffic  management  devices  at  the  applicant's 
expense. 

(p)  Where there are celebration events or other large events attracting larger 
than average numbers of vehicles, the Traffic Impact Study must assess 
the traffic and parking impact of these events on surrounding streets, and 
the measures proposed to minimise any potential impact. 

3.8  To  ensure  adequate  traffic  flow,  worship  services  shall  not  commence  until 
thirty minutes have elapsed following the completion of any preceding service. 
This requirement may be imposed as a condition of development consent. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 4–LOT SIZES AND BUILDING ENVELOPES 

Council  considers  it  necessary  to  ensure  allotments  are  of  sufficient  size  to 
accommodate buildings, off–street parking, set–down and pick–up areas, vehicular 
access  and  manoeuvring  areas,  pedestrian  access,  open  space  and  landscaping.  
This approach to good design provides: 

• 

• 

Amenity  for  visitors  and  staff  through  the  physical,  spatial  and  environmental 
quality of the development. 

Ensures places of public worship can contain the essential elements that make 
up the prevailing character of certain areas, particularly residential areas where 
the prevailing character includes the front setback area and landscaping. 

Building  envelopes  must  also  complement  the  scale  of  the  street  and  the 
surrounding  buildings,  noting  that  the  established  residential  areas  predominantly 
have  a  single  dwelling  suburban  character.    Building  envelopes  generally  include 
height and setback controls.  Applicants must note: 

• 

A building envelope is not a building, but a three dimensional shape that may 
determine  the  bulk  and  siting  of  a  building.    After  allowing  for  building 
articulation,  the  achievable  floor  space  of  a  development  is  likely  to  be  less 
than the building envelope. 

•  Where  development  is  in  the  vicinity  of  land  in  Zone  R2  Low  Density 
Residential,  R3  Medium  Density  Residential  or  R4  High  Density  Residential, 
Council  may  reduce  the  height  or  require  greater  setbacks  to  ensure  the 
development complies with the objectives of Part B8 of this DCP. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To ensure allotments are of sufficient size to provide for buildings, setbacks to 
adjoining  land,  pedestrian  access,  set–down  and  pick–up  areas,  car  parks, 
driveways, vehicle manoeuvring areas, open spaces and landscaped areas. 

(b)  To ensure the design of places of public worship satisfies the needs of visitors 

and staff, and provides a safe environment and easy access for people. 

(c)  To ensure places of public worship are compatible with the prevailing character 

and amenity of the locality of the development. 

(d)  To  ensure  places  of  public  worship  do  not  adversely  impact  on  the  living 
environment or residential amenity of adjoining dwellings and the surrounding 
area. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Allotment size 

4.1  The minimum allotment width, measured at the front building line, for a place of 
public  worship  located  within  Zone  R3  Medium  Density  Residential  and  Zone 
R4 High Density Residential is 15 metres for a corner allotment, and 20 metres 
for all other allotments. 

4.2  The  minimum  allotment  size  for  a  place  of  public  worship  within  Zone  R3 

Medium Density Residential and Zone R4 High Density Residential is 800m2. 

Assembly area 

4.3  The  maximum  area  of  the  assembly  area  in  a  place  of  public  worship  within 
Zone  R2  Low  Density  Residential,  Zone  R3  Medium  Density  Residential  and 
Zone R4 High Density Residential is 400m2. 

4.4  An alteration or addition to an existing place of public worship within Zone R2 
Low  Density  Residential  and  Zone  R3  Medium  Density  Residential  which 
would  result  in  an  assembly  area  with  an  area  of  more  than  400m2  is  not 
permitted. 

Height 

4.5  Within  Zone  R3  Medium  Density  Residential,  Zone  R4  High  Density 
Residential and Zone SP2 Infrastructure, the maximum wall height for a place 
of public worship is 9.5 metres. 

4.6  Within Zone IN1 General Industrial and Zone IN2 Light Industrial, the maximum 
wall height for a place of public worship that is located adjacent to a residential 
area is 9.5 metres. 

4.7  Despite  clauses  4.5  and  4.6,  Council  may  consider  spires,  towers,  minarets 
and similar structures, which exceed the wall height limit on the basis of their 
bulk and scale, the extent of their overshadowing, and their contribution to the 
streetscape. 

4.8  The  operational  requirements  of  Bankstown  Airport  may  place  certain 
additional  constraints  on  building  heights  within  some  areas  of  Bankstown. 
Council may refer certain development applications to the airport authority for 
consideration. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Setbacks to frontages 

4.9  Setbacks  from  the  street  frontage  shall  apply  to  residential,  special  uses  and 

industrial zones as follows: 

Setbacks 

State and regional roads 

Other roads 

Zones R2, R3, 
R4 and SP2 
9 metres 

Zones IN1 and 
IN2 
15 metres 

Zones R2, R3, 
R4 and SP2 
7.5 metres 

Zones IN1 and 
IN2 
10 metres 

9 metres 

15 metres 

7.5 metres 

3 metres 

Primary road 
frontage 
Secondary 
road frontage 

Setbacks to side and rear boundaries 

4.10  Within  the  business  zones,  setbacks  must  be  consistent  with  those  of 

neighbouring properties and with the existing streetscape. 

Within  Zones  R2,  R3,  R4  and  SP2;  and  IN1  and  IN2  which  adjoin  residential 
zoned  land,  side  and  rear  setbacks  must  be  in  accordance  with  the  following 
formula: 

Minimum Setback (S) = 0.8 x Wall Height (W) (see Figure 1). 

Figure 1–Height of building in relation to side and rear boundary setbacks 

H 
W 
S 

=  Absolute height of building above natural ground level 
=  Wall height 
=  Minimum Setback 

H 

W 

boundary 

Natural ground level 

S=W x 0.8 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Access to sunlight 

4.11  At least one living area of a dwelling on an adjoining allotment must receive a 
minimum  3  hours  of  sunlight  between  8.00am  and  4.00pm  at  the  mid–winter 
solstice.    Where  this  requirement  cannot  be  met,  the  development  must  not 
result  with  additional  overshadowing  on  the  affected  living  areas  of  the 
dwelling. 

4.12  A  minimum  50%  of  the  required  private  open  space  for  each  dwelling  on  an 
adjoining  allotment must  receive  at  least 3  hours  of  sunlight  between  9.00am 
and 5.00pm at the equinox.  Where this standard cannot be met for a dwelling 
on  an  adjoining  allotment,  the  development  must  not  result  with  additional 
overshadowing on the affected private open space. 

4.13  Development should avoid overshadowing any existing solar hot water system, 
photovoltaic  panel,  or  other  solar  collector  on  an  allotment  and  neighbouring 
properties. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 5–ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND URBAN DESIGN 

Places  of  public  worship  must  incorporate  energy  efficiency  measures  such  as 
optimum  orientation,  glazing,  sun  control,  cross  ventilation  and  natural  light.    This 
approach to good design provides: 

• 

• 

Amenity  for  visitors  and  staff  through  the  physical,  spatial  and  environmental 
quality of the development.  Optimising amenity requires good natural light and 
ventilation to rooms. 

Ensures  places  of  public  worship  make  efficient  use  of  natural  resources, 
energy and water throughout its full life cycle.  Sustainability is integral to the 
design  process.    Aspects  include  layouts  and  built  form,  good  orientation, 
passive solar access principles, minimal use of mechanical ventilation, and soil 
zones for vegetation and reuse of water. 

Good  quality  architecture  is  also  important.    Good  quality  architecture  requires  the 
appropriate  composition  of  building  elements  (i.e.  proportion,  unity  and  rhythm), 
textures, materials and colours.  Good quality architecture must also: 

• 

• 

Reflect well resolved internal layouts of the various functions and uses. 

Respond  to  the  environment  and  context  particularly  to desirable  elements  in 
the existing streetscape. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have high architectural quality in development. 

(b)  To  have  facade  designs  and  building  footprints  that  integrate  into  the  overall 

building form and enhance the desired contemporary street character. 

(c)  To have architectural diversity and innovation. 

(d)  To encourage active building frontages. 

(e)  To have a contemporary building finish. 

(f)  To  have  front  fences  that  achieve  an  attractive  streetscape  and  incorporate 

open style construction such as spaced timber pickets or wrought iron. 

(g)  To ensure the design, construction and occupation of places of public worship 

incorporate energy efficiency measures. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Energy efficiency 

5.1  Places  of  public  worship  must  comply  with  Part  B4  of  this  DCP  to  make 
efficient  use  of  natural  resources  and  optimise  amenity  in  the  design, 
construction and occupation of buildings and facilities, such as: 

(a)  good orientation and natural light to rooms; 

(b)  achieving  appropriate separation  distances  between  buildings  to  provide 

natural light to rooms; 

(c) 

limiting  building  depth  to  provide  natural  cross–ventilation  and  natural 
light; 

(d)  minimal use of mechanical ventilation; 

(e)  use of sun shading devices; 

(f) 

preventing UV factor to open areas; 

(g) 

reducing  stormwater  run–off  and  promoting  the  use  of  recycled  water; 
and 

(h)  ensuring the development adapts to the existing topography by avoiding 

excessive cut and fill. 

Facade designs 

5.2  Development  must  articulate 

the 

facades 

to  achieve  a  unique  and 

contemporary architectural appearance that: 

(a)  unites the facades with the whole building form; 

(b)  composes  the  facades  with  an  appropriate  scale  and  proportion  that 
responds to the use of the building and the desired contextual character;  

(c)  combines high quality materials and finishes; 

(d)  considers any other architectural elements to Council's satisfaction. 

5.3  Development must provide an active frontage to the street. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Roof designs 

5.4  Development must incorporate an innovative roof design that: 

(a)  achieves a unique and contemporary architectural appearance; and 

(b)  combines high quality materials and finishes. 

Front fences 

5.5  The maximum fence height for a front fence is 1.8 metres. 

5.6  The  external  appearance  of  a  front  fence  along  the  front  boundary  of  an 

allotment or facing an arterial road must ensure: 

(a) 

the  section  of  the front  fence  that  comprises  solid  construction  must  not 
exceed a fence height of 1 metre above natural ground level; and 

(b) 

the  remaining  height  of  the  front  fence  must  comprise  open  style 
construction such as spaced timber pickets or wrought iron that enhance 
and unify the building design. 

5.7  Council  does  not  allow  the  following  types  of  front  fences  along  an  arterial 

road: 

(a)  chain wire, metal sheeting, brushwood, and electric fences; and 

(b)  noise attenuation walls. 

Temporary structures 

5.8  Development must comply with clause 2.8 of Bankstown Local Environmental 

Plan 2015. 

5.9  Council  does  not  allow  a  development  to  be  in  the  form  of  a  temporary 

structure along the Hume Highway. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 6–ACCESS AND PARKING 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To minimise the impact of street parking on adjoining development. 

(b)  To ensure that all parking areas are adequate, easy to use, efficient, and well 

designed. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Parking 

6.1  Development must comply with Part B5 of this DCP.  

6.2  The car park / manoeuvring areas and the set–down and pick–up areas must 

locate separately behind the front building line. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 7–ACOUSTIC PRIVACY AND MANAGEMENT 

It is important to balance the operation of places of public worship with community 
expectations.    To  achieve  this  outcome,  Council  considers  it  necessary  to  seek 
appropriate  acoustic  privacy  measures  that  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing 
character of residential areas.  This is the preferred outcome rather than resorting to 
noise attenuation walls. 

There  is  also  recognition  that  the  good  long  term  operation  and  management  of 
places of public worship can help to ensure development continues to harmoniously 
co–exist with the surrounding residential amenity. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To ensure places of public worship do not adversely impact on the residential 

amenity of adjoining dwellings and the surrounding area. 

(b)  To  allow  development  to  install  appropriate  acoustic  privacy  measures  which 

are compatible with the prevailing character of residential areas. 

(c)  To ensure the ongoing operation and management of places of public worship 

maintain residential amenity. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Acoustic privacy 

7.1  Air  conditioning,  mechanical  ventilation  or  any  other  continuous  noise  source 
must  not  exceed  the  ambient  level  at  any  specified  boundary  by  more  than 
5dB(A). 

7.2  The  location  and  design  of  places  of  public  worship  must  consider  the 
projection of noise from various activities to avoid any adverse impacts on the 
residential amenity of adjoining land. 

For  the  purpose  of  this  clause,  Council  requires  development  applications  to 
submit an Acoustic Report prepared by a suitably qualified acoustic consultant 
to determine: 

(a)  existing noise levels at the identified sensitive receiver locations; 

(b) 

likely  noise  levels  to  emanate  from  the  place  of  public  worship  at  the 
identified sensitive receiver locations; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(c)  whether the development must apply measures to ensure noise does not 

exceed 5dB(A) above the background noise level; 

(d)  whether  the  location  and  setbacks  of  the  development  are  sufficient  to 

protect the acoustic privacy of adjacent dwellings; 

(e)  whether  the  location  of  the  outdoor  areas  should  avoid  living  areas  and 

bedrooms of adjacent dwellings; and 

(f)  whether the development must install certain noise attenuation measures 

to protect the acoustic privacy of adjacent dwellings. 

The Acoustic Report must measure the noise readings over a 15 minute period 
and  must  provide  details  of  all  modelling  assumptions  including  source  noise 
data,  noise  monitoring  positions,  receiver  heights  and  locations,  prevailing 
meteorological  conditions  during 
the 
methodology adopted along with a copy of the model input and output data. 

the  monitoring,  confirmation  of 

7.3  The  maximum  height  for  noise  attenuation  walls  and  fences  along  the 

boundary of an allotment is 2 metres. 

Hours of operation 

7.4  Council  may  limit  the  hours  of  operation  of  places  of  public  worship,  public 

access to places of public worship, and special occasions or events. 

Management plans 

7.5  Council  requires  development  applications  to  submit  a  Management  Plan  to 

determine: 

(a)  hours of operation and days of operation; 

(b)  special  events:  a  detailed  calendar  of  any  festivals  and  special  events 
must  be  supplied  with  the  application,  together  with  details  of  the 
arrangements for parking during these times; 

(c)  number of persons attending at any one time, including non–worship and 
ancillary  activities,  and  proposed  measures  to  minimise  impacts  on  the 
surrounding amenity; 

(d)  expected ‘catchment area’ from which the congregation will travel; and 

(e)  any proposed street parades and road closures. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

7.6  Council must require the operator of a place of public worship in Zone R2 Low 
Density  Residential,  Zone  R3  Medium  Density Residential  and  Zone  R4  High 
Density Residential to organise and chair a Neighbourhood Liaison Committee.  
The  purpose  of  the  Committee  is  for  the  operator  and  neighbours  to  resolve 
any issues, such as traffic and noise, arising from the operation of the place of 
public worship.  The operation of the Committee must ensure: 

(a)  The  membership of  the  Neighbourhood Liaison  Committee must  include 
residents who live next to and opposite the place of public worship. 

(b)  The  Neighbourhood  Liaison  Committee  must  meet  at  least  four  times 

during the first 24 months of the place of public worship. 

(c)  The  operator  of  the  place  of  public  worship  must  forward  the  meeting 

minutes to Committee members. 

(d)  The  operator  of  the  place  of  public  worship  may  forward  the  meeting 

minutes to Council for information purposes. 

(e)  The operator of the place of public worship may terminate the Committee 
once it meets at least four times during the first 24 months of the place of 
public  worship  operating,  or  may  choose  to  extend  the  function  of  the 
Committee over a longer period of time. 

7.7  Council  may  require  the  operator  of  a  place  of  public  worship  in  zones  other 
than  the  residential  zones  to  organise  and  chair  a  Neighbourhood  Liaison 
Committee. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 8–OPEN SPACE AND LANDSCAPED AREAS 

Landscape  design  builds  on  the  existing  site's  natural  and  cultural  features  in 
responsible  and  creative  ways. 
the  development's  natural 
environmental  performance  by  coordinating  water  and  soil  management,  solar 
access, microclimate, tree canopy and habitat values.  It contributes to the positive 
image  and  contextual  fit  of  development  through  respect  for  streetscape  and 
neighbourhood character. 

It  enhances 

For example, the landscaping of front yards in the residential areas is canopy trees 
and  deep  soil  plantings.    The front  setback area  of  places  of public  worship  in  the 
residential areas must therefore contain generous landscaping to be compatible with 
the prevailing character.  Car parks and hard surfaces should not dominate the front 
setback area. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To reduce the impact of non–residential structures in residential areas. 

(b)  To screen the development from adjoining properties and to ensure maximum 

privacy for these properties and their uses. 

(c)  To improve the visual appearance of and provide shade for parking areas. 

(d)  To maximise porous landscaped areas. 

(e)  To ensure facilities are visually integrated with a development. 

(f)  To have a landscape buffer zone that encourages deep soil planting and high 

quality artworks to enhance a locality or arterial road. 

(g)  To  provide  useable  open  space  on  the  street  frontage  for  canopy  trees  and 

deep soil zones. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Landscaping 

8.1  For  all  new  developments  and  significant  modifications 

to  existing 
developments,  a  Landscape  Plan  prepared  by  a  suitably  qualified  landscape 
designer  who  is  eligible  for  membership  of  the  Australian  Institute  of 
Landscape  Architects  (AILA)  or  Australian  Institute  of  Landscape  Designers 
and Managers (AILDM) is to form part of the submission requirements. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

8.2  The  landscape  plan  is  required  to  accurately  show  all  existing  landscape 
features such as trees, bushland and natural rock formations, contour lines and 
relevant spot heights. Trees, landscape features and buildings located within 3 
metres of the boundary in adjacent sites are also to be accurately shown. 

8.3  The  landscape  plan  must  clearly  show  the  layout  of  proposed  buildings, 
features,  car  parking  areas,  and  numbers,  species  and  layout  of  proposed 
planting. 

8.4  New  car  parking  areas  are  to  be  furnished  with  canopy  trees.  For  every  ten 
parallel spaces in a row parking arrangement a canopy tree must be provided. 
Planting hole dimension is 2m x 2m minimum area. Protective furnishing must 
be provided to the tree surround. 

8.5  Screen  planting  capable  of  achieving  3  metres  in  height  shall  be  provided  to 
the common boundary between the new development and existing residential 
buildings where the setback from property boundaries is greater than 3 metres. 

8.6  Screen  planting  shall  be  provided  in  the  required  setback  areas  between  the 
road  and  car  park  areas,  and  between  adjoining  residential  buildings  and  car 
parking areas. 

8.7  Planter Beds: Minimum width for all planter beds on grade is 1200mm. 

8.8  Planter  Containers:  Minimum  depth  for  planter  beds  on-structure  is  600mm, 
and  width  500mm.  Planter  containers  must  have  waterproof  membrane  and 
internal  sub-soil  drainage  connected  to  the  storm  water  drainage.  Planting 
height and volume must be suitable to the constraints of the internal volume of 
the container. 

8.9  Planting  generally  must  incorporate  a  full  spectrum  of  size  including  canopy 
trees  capable  of  achieving  over  13  metres  at  maturity,  shrubs  up  to  mature 
maximum height of 1.2 metres, and ground covers. Densely foliaged medium 
to  large  shrubs  are  to  be  planted  sparingly.  Recommended  planting  lists  are 
provided as Appendix 3. 

8.10  Consideration  is  to  be  given  to  collecting  on-site  water  through  rainwater 

collection tanks for utilising for irrigation purposes. 

8.11  A  commercial  grade,  sub–surface  dripper–style,  electrically  automated  self–
timed  irrigation  system  is  to  be  supplied  to  all  garden  bed  areas  and  planter 
containers.  Regular  checks  are  to  be  made  to  ensure  continued  successful 
operation. 

8.12  All  garden  beds  are  to  be  furnished  with  the  following  as  minimum 

requirements: 

(a) 

improved garden soil to AS 4419, to min. depth 300mm over existing site 
soil; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b)  organic recycled mulch to AS 4454, to minimum depth 75mm; and 

(c)  garden  bed  edging,  mowing  strip  or  similar  containing  edge  to  interface 

edges. 

8.13  A maintenance plan for the ongoing horticultural care of planting material must 

be provided as part of the landscape plan. 

8.14  A development must ensure the following facilities are not visible to the street 

and any nearby public open spaces: 

(a)  waste storage area; 

(b)  storage of goods and materials; and 

(c)  any clothes drying area. 

8.15  A  development  and  a  landscape  buffer  zone  must  plant  a  75  litre  tree  at  5 
metre  intervals  along  the  length  of  the  Hume  Highway  boundary  to  the 
allotment, and: 

(a)  must select the trees from the list in Appendix 5; and 

(b)  should  consider  incorporating  public  art  to  enhance  the  themes  of  the 

Remembrance Driveway or business enterprise corridor. 

Deep soil zones 

8.16  Development  for  the  purpose  of  places  of  public  worship  must  provide  deep 
soil zones that have the following minimum widths around the boundary of the 
allotment of land: 

Minimum 
width of deep 
soil zone 

Primary road 
frontage 
Secondary 
road frontage 
Side and rear 
setbacks 

State or regional roads 

Other roads 

Zones R2, R3, 
R4 and SP2 
9 metres 

Zones IN1 and 
IN2 
9 metres 

Zones R2, R3, 
R4 and SP2 
6 metres 

Zones IN1 and 
IN2 
9 metres 

9 metres 

9 metres 

6 metres 

3 metres 

5 metres 

5 metres 

5 metres 

5 metres 

The  deep  soil  zones  must  be  landscaped  by  way  of  deep  soil  plantings  and 
canopy trees. 

8.17  Council  will  determine  the  minimum  width  for  deep  soil  zones  for  places  of 
public worship in the business zones based on the setbacks of the street and 
the surrounding buildings. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 9–ANCILLARY USES 

This  section  applies  to  ancillary  uses  to  places  of  public  worship  (such  as 
administration  offices,  community  facilities,  dwellings,  kitchens,  libraries  or  other 
uses  directly  associated  with  a  place  of  public  worship).    These  ancillary  uses 
should not adversely impact on the prevailing character of the area or the amenity of 
neighbouring dwellings. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  ensure  ancillary  uses  are  compatible  with  the  prevailing  character  and 

amenity of the locality of the area. 

(b)  To ensure ancillary uses do not adversely impact on the residential amenity of 

neighbouring dwellings and the surrounding area. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Ancillary uses 

9.1 

It will be necessary to submit with the Development Application details of any 
proposed ancillary uses, including the nature of the use, how many people will 
attend, duration and noise impacts. 

9.2  The  design,  construction  and  operation  of  ancillary  uses  must  take  into 

consideration the following matters: 

(a)  whether any proposed building is compatible with the height, scale, siting 
and  character  of  existing  residential  development  within  the  adjoining 
residential zone; 

(b)  whether any goods, plant, equipment and other material used in carrying 
out  the  proposed  development  will  be  stored  or  suitably  screened  from 
residential development; 

(c)  whether the proposed development will maintain reasonable solar access 
to  residential  development  between  the  hours  of  8.00am  and  4.00pm  at 
the mid–winter solstice; 

(d)  whether noise generation from fixed sources or motor vehicles associated 
with  the  proposed  development  will  be  effectively  insulated  or  otherwise 
minimised; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

26 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(e)  whether  the  proposed  development  will  otherwise  cause  nuisance  to 
residents,  by  way  of  hours  of  operation,  traffic  movement,  parking, 
headlight glare, security lighting, fumes, gases, smoke, dust or odours, or 
the like; and 

(f)  whether any windows or balconies facing residential areas will be treated 
to avoid overlooking of private yard space or windows in residences. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 10–SITE FACILITIES AND SERVICES 

Good  design  responds  to  the  availability  of  infrastructure  and  optimises  amenity 
through efficient layouts and service areas. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To ensure consideration is given to the provision of services pertaining to the 

proposed development. 

(b)  To regulate advertising signs to protect the visual amenity of the area. 

(c)  To  ensure  the  design,  construction,  and  operation  of  kitchens  and  food 

premises achieve satisfactory standards of hygiene. 

(d)  To ensure the design, construction, and operation of facilities and infrastructure 

achieve satisfactory standards. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Services 

10.1  Development  must  comply  with  the  Bankstown  Development  Engineering 

Standards Policy. 

Food premises 

10.2  The design, construction and operation of a food premises must comply with: 

(a)  Food Act 2003; 

(b)  Food Regulation 2010; 

(c)  FSANZ Food Standards Code; and 

(d)  AS 4674:2004 Design, Construction and Fitout of Food Premises. 

Waste storage areas 

10.3  The design, location, and screening of waste and recyclable receptacle areas 

must be to the satisfaction of Council. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 11–SAFETY AND SECURITY 

This  section  adopts  the  principles  of  Crime  Prevention  through  Environmental 
Design  to  reduce  the  potential  for  crime,  and  to  enhance  community  safety  in  the 
City of Bankstown. 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  ensure  the  siting  and  design  of  buildings  contribute  to  the  personal  and 

property security of people. 

(b)  To ensure a development is integrated with the public domain and contribute to 

an active pedestrian-orientated environment. 

(c)  To maximise natural surveillance so that people feel safe at all times. 

(d)  To  minimise  the  potential  for  intruders  to  enter  buildings  and  private  open 

spaces. 

(e)  To ensure entrances and exits are clearly visible from the street. 

(f)  To  ensure  facilities  are  located  in  highly  visible  areas  with  high  levels  of 

activity. 

(g)  To  encourage  building  designs,  materials,  and  maintenance  programs  that 

reduce the opportunities for vandalism and graffiti. 

(h)  To ensure developments are easily accessible to people with disabilities. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Entrances, fences and natural surveillance 

11.1  The front door to a building should face the street. 

11.2  An  external  entry  path  and  the  foyer  to  a  building  should  be  direct  to  avoid 

potential hiding places. 

11.3  Windows  on  the  upper  floors  of  a  building  should,  where  possible,  overlook 

the street. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

11.4  For a fence located forward of the front building line, the solid construction of 
the  fence  must  not  exceed  a  height  of  1  metre  above  natural  ground  level. 
The remaining height of the fence must comprise an open style construction 
such  as  spaced  timber  pickets,  wrought  iron,  or  lattice.  Metal  sheet,  chain 
wire,  brushwood  or  unframed  lattice  is  not  permitted  along  the  primary 
frontage of an allotment. 

Security devices 

11.5  A security alarm system should be installed in a building. 

11.6  All  windows  and  doors  on  the  ground  floor  should  ordinarily  be  made  of 
toughened glass to reduce the opportunities for ‘smash and grab’ and ‘break 
and  enter’  offences,  with  the  exception  of  special  features  such  as  stained 
glass  windows.  Where  possible,  such  special  features  should  be  above 
ground floor level. 

11.7  Access  to  a  basement  car  park  must  only  be  available  to  the  public  during 
operating  hours  and  via  a  security  door  or  gate  with  an  intercom,  code,  or 
card lock system. 

11.8  Unless  impractical,  access  to  an  outdoor  car  park  should  be  closed  to  the 

public outside of operating hours via a lockable gate. 

11.9  Lighting  must  be  provided  to  the  following  areas  of  a  building  to  promote 

safety and security at night: 

(a) 

an external entry path, foyer, driveway, and car park to a building; and 

(b) 

the main entrance. This may be in the form of motion sensitive lighting 
or timer lighting. 

11.10  A pedestrian entry path and driveway to a car park that are intended for night 
use must be well lit using a vandal resistant, high mounted light fixture. 

11.11  The lighting in a car park must conform to Australian Standards 1158.1, 1680, 

and 2890.1. 

Railway corridors and open stormwater drains 

11.12  Where  a  site  shares  a  boundary  with  a  railway  corridor  or  an  open 
stormwater  drain,  any  building,  solid  fence,  or  car  park  on  the  site  should, 
wherever  practical,  be  setback  a  minimum  1.5  metres  from  that  boundary. 
The setback distance must be: 

(a) 

treated  with  hedging  or  climbing  vines  to  screen  the  building,  solid 
fence,  or  car  park  when  viewed  from  the  railway  corridor  or  open 
stormwater drain, and 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

the hedging or climbing vines must be planted prior to the completion 
of the development using a minimum pot size of 300mm, and 

the  planter  bed  area  must  incorporate  a  commercial  grade,  sub–
surface, automatic, self–timed irrigation system, and 

the site must be fenced along the boundary using a minimum 2 metre 
high chain-wire fence, and 

where a car park adjoins the boundary, hedging or climbing vines must 
also  be  planted  along  the  sides  of  any  building  or  solid  fence  on  the 
site that face the railway corridor or open stormwater drain. 

11.13  If  a  setback  for  landscaping  under  the  above  clause  is  not  practical,  other 
means  to  avoid  graffiti  must  be  employed  that  satisfies  Council’s  graffiti 
minimisation strategy. 

Accessibility 

11.14  Development  must  be  easily  accessible  to  people  with  disabilities  and  must 
comply  with  the  Building  Code  of  Australia,  AS  1428  Parts  1  and  4–Design 
for Access and Mobility. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1–State roads 

ROAD 

FROM 

TO 

City Boundary 
Hume Highway 
Waterloo Road 
Rookwood Road  Hume Highway 

Alfords Point Road  Davies Road 
Boronia Road 
Brunker Road 
Punchbowl Road 
Canterbury Road  Milperra Road 
Alfords Point Rd 
Fairford Road 
Davies Road 
Davies Road 
Stacey Street 
Fairford Road  
City Boundary 
Hume Highway 
Henry Lawson Dr 
City Boundary 
City Boundary 
Hume Highway 
Waterloo Road 
Juno Parade 
Punchbowl Road 
Newbridge Road  Canterbury Road 
Milperra Road 
City Boundary 
Newbridge Road 
Milperra Road 
Canterbury Road  City Boundary 
Punchbowl Road 
Wiley Avenue 
Hume Highway 
Roberts Road 
City Boundary 
Hume Highway 
Rookwood Road 
Fairford Road 
Rookwood Road 
Stacey Street 
City Boundary 
City Boundary 
M5 Motorway 
Koala Road 
Roberts Road 
Wiley Avenue 
City Boundary 
Hume Highway 
Woodville Road 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

32 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 2–Regional roads 

ROAD 

FROM 

TO 

Ashford Avenue 
Waldron Road 

Hume Highway 
River Avenue 
Hume Highway 
Uranus Road 
Auburn Road 
Canterbury Road 

Railway Bridge 
Faraday Road 
Milperra Road 
Hume Highway 
Horsley Road 
Georges Cres 
Park Road 
Greenwood Ave 

Brunker Road 
Davies Road 
Bullecourt Ave 
Water Pipeline 
The River Road 
Owen Road 
Tower Street 
Chapel Road 
Rookwood Road  Allder Street 

Allder Street 
Alma Road 
Ashford Avenue 
Auburn Road 
Beaconsfield St 
Birdwood Road 
Braesmere Road 
Brandon Avenue 
Brunker Road 
Bullecourt Avenue  Horsley Road 
Carlingford Road  Water Pipeline 
Canterbury Road  Brandon Avenue 
Chapel Road 
Rickard Road 
Chapel Road 
Waldron Road 
Christina Road 
Milperra Road 
Edgar Street 
Alma Road 
Faraday Road 
Railway Bridge 
Ferrier Road 
Watson Road 
Gibson Avenue 
Brandon Avenue  Marion Street 
Greenwood Ave 
Georges Cres 
Haig Avenue 
Hume Highway 
Hector Street 
Beaconsfield St 
Horsley Road 
Koala Road 
Wattle Street 
Macauley Avenue  Stacey Street 
Marion Street 
Meredith Street 
Miller Road 
Owen Road 
Park Road 
Queen Street 
Rickard Road 
Rickard Road 
Roberts Road 
Sphinx Avenue 
The River Road 
Tower Street 
Uranus Road 
Waldron Road 
Waterloo Road 
Watson Road 
Wattle Street 
Wellington Road 
Woods Road 

Greenwood Ave  Meredith Street 
Marion Street 
Hume Highway 
Marion Street 
Braesmere Road  Maclaurin Avenue 
Beaconsfield St 
Stacey Street 
Meredith Street 
Wiley Avenue 
Gibson Avenue 
Henry Lawson Dr  M5 Motorway 
Braesmere Road 
The River Road 
Faraday Road 
The River Road 
Carlingford Road  Christina Road 
Hume Highway 
Wattle Street 
Gibson Avenue 
Fairford Road 
Stacey Street 
Koala Road 
Auburn Road 
Woods Road 
Wellington Road  Carlingford Road 

Henry Lawson Dr 
Water Pipeline 
Bullecourt Ave 
Wiley Avenue 
Chapel Road 

Milperra Road 
Chapel Road 
Chapel Road 
Wattle Street 
The River Road 

Rickard Road 
Waldron Road 
Birdwood Road 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

33 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 3–Suggested species for native landscaping purposes 

Local Indigenous Species 

Common Name 

Preferred Soil 

Acacia falcata 
Acacia longifolia 
Acacia suaveolens 
Acacia terminalis 
Acacia ulicifolia 
Billardiera scandens 
Breynia oblongifolia 
Bursaria spinosa 
Callistemon linearis 
Callistemon salignus 
Carex appressa 
Clematis aristata 
Clematis glycinoides 
Clerodendrum tomentosum 
Correa reflexa 
Crinum pedunculatum 
Danthonia tenuior 
Dianella caerulea 
Dianella longifolia 
Dianella revoluta 
Dichelachne micrantha 
Dodonaea triquetra 
Echinopogon caespitosus 
Einadia hastata 
Eragrostis brownii 
Eriostemon myoporoides 
Eustrephus latifolius 
Gonocarpus teucrioides 
Goodenia bellidifolia 
Grevillea sericea 
Hakea sericea 
Hardenbergia violacea 
Hibbertia aspera 
Imperata cylindrica 
Indigofera australis 
Juncus usitatus 
Kennedia rubicunda 
Kunzea ambigua 
Leptospermum polygalifolium 
Leptospermum trinervium 
Lomandra longifolia 
Melaleuca nodosa 
Melaleuca thymifolia 
Microlaena stipoides 

Sickle Wattle 
Sydney Golden Wattle 
Sweet Scented Wattle 
Sunshine Wattle 
Prickly Moses 
Climbing Apple Berry 
Coffee Brush 
Blackthorn 
Narrow–leaf Bottlebrush 
Willow Bottlebrush 
Tussock Sedge 
Old Man's Beard 
Traveller's Joy 
Hairy Clerodendrum 
Common Correa 
Swamp Lily 
Wallaby Grass 
Paroo Lily 
Pale Flax Lily 
Black–anther Flax Lily 
Short–hair Plume Grass 
Common Hop Bush 
Hedgehog Grass 
Saloop Saltbush 
Brown's Lovegrass 
Long–leaf Wax Flower 
Wombat Berry 
Raspwort 
Rocket Goodenia 
Pink Spider Flower 
Silky Hakea 
Purple Twining Pea 
Rough Guinea–flower 
Blady Grass 
Native Indigo 
Tussock Rush 
Dusty Coral Pea 
Tick Bush 
Yellow Tea Tree 
Flaky–barked Tea Tree 
Spiny–headed Mat–rush 
Ball Honey Myrtle 
Claw Honey Myrtle 
Weeping Meadow Grass 

Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay/Sand 
Clay 
Clay/Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Alluvial 
Sand 
Alluvial 
Sand 
Clay 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay/Sand 
Sand 
Clay/Sand 
Sand/Shale 
Sand 
Sand/Shale 
Alluvial 
Clay 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay/Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

34 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Local Indigenous Species 

Common Name 

Preferred Soil 

Oplismenus imbecilis 
Ozothamnus diosmifolius 
Pandorea pandorana 
Persicaria decipiens 
Persicaria lapathifolia 
Petrophile pulchella 
Pimelea linifolia 
Plectranthus parviflorus 
Polyscias sambucifolia 
Pomax umbellata 
Pultenaea villosa 
Rubus parviflorus 
Trighlochin striatum 
Triglochin procerum 
Viola hederacea 

Basket Grass 
White Dogwood 
Wonga Vine 
Slender Knotweed 
Pale Knotweed 
Conesticks 
Slender Rice Flower 
Cockspur Flower 
Elderberry Panax 
Pomax 
Bronze Bush Pea 
Native Raspberry 
Streaked Arrowgrass 
Water Ribbons 
Native Violet 

Sand 
Sand 
Clay 
Alluvial 
Alluvial 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Clay 
Alluvial 
Alluvial 
Sand 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

35 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 3–Suggested trees for native landscaping purposes 

Australian Native Species 

Common Name 

Preferred Soil 

Acacia binervia 
Acmena smithii 
Angophora costata 
Backhousia citriodora 
Backhousia floribunda 
Banksia serrata 
Brachychiton populneum 
Callistemon citrinus 
Callistemon pinifolius 
Callistemon viminalis 
Ceratapetalum gummiferum 
Elaeocarpus reticulatus 
Eucalyptus eugenioides 
Eucalyptus fibrosa 
Eucalyptus gummifera 
Eucalyptus haemastoma 
Eucalyptus longifolia 
Eucalyptus moluccana 
Eucalyptus resinifera  
Eucalyptus sideroxylon 
Eucalyptus tereticornis 
Flindersia australis 
Glochidion ferdinandii 
Harpullia pendula 
Hymenosporum flavum 
Leptospermum petersonii 
Lophostemon conferta 
Melaleuca decora 
Melaleuca linariifolia 
Pittosporum revolutum 

Sand/Clay* 

Sand* 

Sand* 
Clay* 
Clay* 
Sand* 
Sand* 
Clay* 
Clay* 
Sand/Clay* 
Clay* 
Clay* 

Sand/Clay* 

Clay* 
Clay* 

Myall Wattle 
Lilli Pilli 
Smooth Barked Apple 
Lemon Scented Myrtle 
Flowering Myrtle 
Old Man Banksia 
Kurrajong 
Crimson Bottlebrush 
Green Bottlebrush 
Weeping Bottlebrush 
Christmas Bush 
Blueberry Ash 
Thin Leaf Stringybark 
Broad Leaf Ironbark 
Red bloodwood 
Scribbly Gum 
Woollybutt 
Grey Box 
Red Mahogany 
Mugga Ironbark 
Forest Redgum 
Australian Teak/ Crows Ash 
Cheese Tree 
Tulipwood 
Native Frangipani 
Lemon Scented Tea Tree 
Brushbox 
White Feather Honey Myrtle 
Narrow Leaf Paperbark 
Yellow/ Rough Fruit 
Pittosporum 
Diamond Leaf Pittosporum 
Illawarra Plum 
Queensland Firewheel Tree 
Turpentine 
Small Leaf Lilli Pilli 
Brush Cherry 
Blue Lilli Pilli 
Water Gum 
Weeping Lilli Pilli 

Pittosporum rhombifolium 
Podocarpus elatus 
Stenocarpus sinuatus 
Syncarpia glomulifera 
Syzygium luehmannii 
Syzygium paniculatum 
Syzygium oleosum 
Tristaniopsis laurina 
Waterhousia floribunda 
* Asterix denotes plant species native to Bankstown area.  NOTE: Plants listed will benefit from improved garden soil conditions, 
irrigation and ongoing maintenance.  The above plant list is not exhaustive, additional species may be considered.  Planting to be 
determined with concession to site conditions, aspect, exposure, drainage and surrounding vegetation. 

Sand/Clay* 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

36 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 3–Suggested plant species suitable for screening purposes (1–2 
metres in height) 

Australian native species 

Common name 

Preferred soil 

Citrinus Bottlebrush 
Narrow Leaf Bottlebrush 
Bottlebrush 
Geraldton Wax 
Hop Bush 
Wax Flower 
Long Leaf Wax Flower 

Sand 
Clay 
Clay 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand/clay 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand/clay 
Sand/clay 
Sand/clay 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand/clay 
Sand/clay 

Sally Wattle 
Green Wattle 
Sydney Golden Wattle 
Sweet Scented Wattle 
Sunshine Wattle 
Baeckea 
Giant Candles Heath Banksia 
Hair Pin Banksia 

Acacia floribunda * 
Acacia parramattensis * 
Acacia longifolia * 
Acacia suavolens * 
Acacia terminalis * 
Baeckea linarifolia 
Banksia ericifolia 'Giant Candles' 
Banksia spinulosa var spinulosa * 
Boronia muelleri 'Sunset Serenade'  Sunset Serenade Boronia 
Callistemon citrinus (various) 
Callistemon linearis * 
Callistemon viminalis (various) 
Chamelaucium uncinatum 
Dodonaea viscosa 'Purpurea' * 
Eriostemon australasius * 
Eriostemon myoporoides * 
Grevillea 'Poorinda ' varieties 
Grevillea rosmarinifolia (various) 
Grevillea hybrids 'Honey Gem', 'Austraflora Canterbury Gold & Copper Crest', 'Clearview David',  
Canberra Gem', 'Robyn Gordon', 'Sandra Gordon', 'Misty Pink', 'Glabella Limelight', 'Ivanhoe', 'Ned Kelly' 
Hakea laurina * 
Hakea sericea * 
Indigophora australis * 
Isopogon anemonifolia* 
Isopogon anethifolius * 
Kunzea ambigua * 
Kunzea baxteri 
Kunzea capitata * 
Lambertia formosa * 
Leptospermum flavescens 'Pacific 
Beauty' * 
Leptospermum petersonii 
Leptospermum suavolens 
Melaleuca decora * 
Melaleuca linearifolia * 
Melaleuca nodosa * 
Phebalum squamulosa 
Prosanthera caerula 
Prosanthera incana 
Prosanthera ovalifolia* 
Syzygium australe (various) 
Westringia brevifolia 'Raleigh' 
Westringia fruticosa 
* Asterix denotes plant species native to Bankstown area.  NOTE: Plants listed will benefit from improved garden soil conditions, 
irrigation and ongoing maintenance.  The above plant list is not exhaustive, additional species may be considered.  Planting to be 
determined with concession to site conditions, aspect, exposure, drainage and surrounding vegetation. 

Lemon Scented Tea Tree 
Tea Tree 
White Feather Honey Myrtle 
Snow In Summer 
Ball Honey Myrtle 
Phebalum 
Mint Bush 
Mint Bush 
Purple Mint Bush 
Lilly Pilly (dwarf varieties) 
Blue Westringia 
Coastal Rosemary 

Pin Cushion Hakea 
Silky Hakea, Needle Bush 
Native Blue Indigo 
Drumsticks 
Drumsticks, Cone Flower 
Tick Bush 
Tick Bush 
Tick Bush 
Mountain Devil 
Pacific Beauty Tea Tree 

Clay 
Sand/clay 
Clay 
Clay 
Clay 
Sand/clay 
Sand/clay 
Sand/clay 
Sand/clay 
Sand/clay 
Sand/clay 
Sand/clay 

Sand 
Sand 
Clay 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand 
Sand/clay 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

37 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Non–Native Species 

Common Name 

Abelia grandiflora 
Abutilon x hybridum 
Berberis sp. 
Brunsfelsia latifolia (syn. bonodora) 
Buxus microphylla var. japonica 
Buxus sempervirens 
Calliandra haemocephala 
Camellia japonica (various) 
Camellia sasanqua (various) 
Chaemomeles speciosa 
Choisya ternata 
Hibiscus sp. (various) 
Kolkwitzia amabilis 
Michelia figo 
Murraya paniculata 
Myrtus communis 
Nandina domestica 
Osmanthus fragrans 
Photinia glabra 'Rubens' 
Photinia x fraseri 'Red Robin' 
Pieris japonica 
Raphiolepis x delacourii 
Raphiolepis indica 
Rondeletia anoema 
Spiraea cantoniensis 
Tibouchina macrantha 
Tibouchina lepidota 
Viburnum odoratissimum 
Viburnum tinus 
NOTE:  Many  of  the  above  non–native  species  require  improved  soil  conditions,  irrigation  and  ongoing  maintenance  for  optimum 
growth.  The above list is not exhaustive, additional species may be considered.  Planting to be determined with concession to site 
conditions, aspect, exposure, drainage and surrounding vegetation. 

Glossy Abelia 
Chinese Lantern 
Barberry 
Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow 
Japanese Box 
Common Box 
Tassel Flower 
Camellia–Japanese  
Camellia 
Flowering Quince 
Mexican Orange Blossom 
Hibiscus 
Beauty Bush 
Port Wine Magnolia 
Orange Jessamine 
Common Myrtle 
Sacred Bamboo 
Sweet Olive 
Photinia 
Photinia 
Pearl Flower 
Hawthorn 
Hawthorn 
Rondeletia 
Bridal May 
Glory Bush/ Lasiandra 
Large Flowered Glory Bush 
Sweet Viburnum 
Viburnum 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

38 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 4–Figure 2–Calculating the assembly area (not to scale) 

Floor area of assembly area: 
Maximum 400m2 in the 
residential zones 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

39 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 4–Figure 3–Minimum allotment size and width (not to scale) in Zone 
R3 Medium Density Residential and Zone R4 High Density Residential  

Measure allotment 
width at the front 
building line. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

40 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 4–Figure 4–Maximum wall height (not to scale) within Zones R3, R4 
and SP2; and IN1 and IN2 which adjoin residential zoned land 

Height of spires, towers, minarets and similar 
structures may be considered (as per clause 
4.7). 

Natural ground level 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

41 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Appendix 5–Suitable trees on the Hume Highway 

Australian Native Species 

Common Name 

Preferred Soil 

sand / clay 
Improved soil conditions 
composted garden soil 

s* 

Acmena smithii 
Angophora costata 
Brachychiton acerifolius 
Cupaniopsis anarchoides 
Elaeocarpus reticulatus 
Eucalyptus beaureana 
Eucalyptus haemastoma 
Eucalyptus maculata 
Eucalyptus moluccana 
Flindersia australis 
Harpullia pendula 
Leptospermum petersonii 
Lophostemon conferta 
Stenocarpus sinuatus 
Syncarpia glomulifera 
Syzygium luehmannii 
Tristaniopsis laurina 
*  Asterix  denotes  plant  species  native  to  Bankstown  area.    NOTE:  Plants  listed  will  benefit  from  improved  garden  soil  conditions, 
irrigation  and  ongoing maintenance.   The  above  plant  list  is  not  exhaustive,  additional  species may  be  considered.    Planting  to  be 
determined with concession to site conditions, aspect, exposure, drainage and surrounding vegetation. 

Lilli Pilli 
Smooth Barked Apple 
Illawarra Flame Tree 
Tuckeroo 
Blueberry Ash 
Blue Box 
Scribbly Gum 
Spotted Gum 
Grey Box 
Australian Teak/ Crows Ash 
Tulipwood 
Lemon Scented Tea Tree 
Brushbox 
Queensland Firewheel Tree 
Turpentine 
Small Leaf Lilli Pilli 
Water Gum 

s/c* 

s/c* 

c* 

s* 

Non–Native Species 

Common Name 

Preferred Soil– 
Improved Organic 

Gordonia axillaris 
Jacaranda mimosaefolia 
Koelreutaria paniculata 
Lagerstroemia indica 
Liriodendron tulipifera 
Magnolia grandiflora 
Platanus cuniata 
Platanus x hybrida 
Pyrus calleryana 
Pyrus ussuriensis 
Sapium sebiferum 
Ulmus parvifolia 
Zelkova serrata 

Gordonia 
Jacaranda 
Pride Of China 
Crepe Myrtle 
Tulip Tree 
Bull Bay Magnolia 
Cut–Leaf Plane 
London Plane 
Callery Pear 
Manchurian Pear 
Chinese Tallowood 
Chinese Elm 
Japanese Elm, Keyaki 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B8 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

42 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown 
Development 
Control 
Plan 2015 

PART B9 

SEX SERVICES 
PREMISES 

 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

CONTENTS 

Section 1 

Introduction   

Section 2 

Location 

Section 3 

Impact on Neighbourhood   

Section 4 

Parking 

Section 5 

Access 

Section 6 

Amenity 

Section 7 

Business and Building Identification Signs 

Section 8 

Safety and Security  

Section 9 

Visual Amenity 

Section 10  Health  

Section 11  Management Issues 

Section 12  Related Information  

3 

5 

6 

6 

7 

7 

8 

8 

9 

9 

10 

11 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B9 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 1–INTRODUCTION 

Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015 is Council's principal planning document 
to  regulate  effective  and  orderly  development  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.    The  LEP 
provides  objectives,  zones  and  development  standards  such  as  lot  sizes  and  floor 
space ratios. 

Part  B9  of  Bankstown  Development  Control  Plan  2015  supplements  the  LEP  by 
providing additional objectives and development controls that regulate the activity of 
sex  services  premises  within  the  industrial  zones  of  the  City  of  Bankstown  to  the 
benefit of operators, workers and the community. 

Part  B9  applies  to  certain  land  within  Zone  IN1  General  Industrial  and  Zone  IN2 
Light  Industrial where  the  provisions  of  Bankstown  Local  Environmental  Plan 2015 
allow sex services premises. 

Council prepared Part B9 in response to the proclamation of the Disorderly Houses 
Amendment Act 1995, which decriminalised sex services premises, making them a 
legitimate land use under planning law.  The provisions within Part B9 will be used 
to  assess  the  appropriateness  of  development  applications  to  conduct  a  sex 
services premises on particular sites. 

In most circumstances, any consent granted to a sex services premises will have an 
initial maximum life of one year.  At the end of this period, Council will examine the 
impact  of  the  sex  services  premises  on  the  neighbourhood  and  compliance  with 
conditions of consent.  If the premises is having a significant negative impact on the 
amenity of the area, Council may decide not to re–issue consent.  This impact would 
ordinarily  be  determined  on  the  same  basis  as  the  closure  of  a  sex  services 
premises. 

Under Part B9, Council must be notified if any details of the development application 
change.  For example, hours of operation and number of employees.  If the change 
is significant, it may be necessary to submit a new development application.  When 
the  operator  of a  sex  services  premises  changes, the  operator must  notify Council 
immediately. 

All development applications for sex services premises will be referred to the NSW 
Police. 

Objectives 

The objectives of Part B9 of this DCP are: 

(a)  To have the location of sex services premises in areas which are appropriate 

for the use. 

(b)  To have development controls that address the public health and safety of sex 

services premises. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B9 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Roles of State Government and Council 

Council will regulate sex services premises with the cooperation of the NSW Police 
and the NSW Ministry of Health.  The responsibilities of these agencies are: 

(a)  NSW Police 

All development applications for sex services premises will be referred to the NSW 
Police for comment prior to determination.  Once a sex services premises has been 
approved,  the  Police  will  be  responsible  for  any  investigation  into  alleged  criminal 
activity.  This includes drug related activities, violent crime or underage prostitution. 

(b)  Public Health 

The NSW Ministry of Health will be responsible for the maintenance of public health.  
This 
to  public  health  matters, 
specifically sexually transmitted diseases and contagious diseases. 

investigation  of  complaints  relating 

includes 

(c)  Other relevant authorities 

Where  Council  considers  it  relevant  and/or  necessary,  development  applications 
may  also  be  referred  to  other  authorities  or  organisations,  for  example  the  Sex 
Workers Outreach Project. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B9 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 2–LOCATION 

Consideration 

2.1  A matter of consideration is the proximity of the premises to a place of public 
worship,  school,  community  facility,  hospital,  medical  centre,  and  any  place 
regularly frequented by children for recreational or cultural activities. 

Development controls 

The development controls are: 

Location 

2.2  Sex services premises may not be within reasonable view of a church, school, 
community facility, hospital, medical centre, and any place regularly frequented 
by  children  for  recreational  or  cultural  activities  (‘reasonable  view’  shall  be 
determined  taking  into  account  factors  such  as  topography,  vegetation, 
signage, intervening development and similar factors). 

2.3  Sex  services  premises  should  not  be  within  a  100  metre  radius  from  the 
boundary  of  the  nearest  property  containing  a  sensitive  use  or  used  for 
residential purposes, regardless of the zoning of that property. 

2.4  Sex services premises may not front or locate within 100 metres of a state road 

listed in the table below. 

STATE ROAD 

FROM 

TO 

Alfords Point Road 
Boronia Road 
Brunker Road 
Canterbury Road 
Davies Road 
Fairford Road  
Henry Lawson Drive 
Hume Highway 
Juno Parade 
Milperra Road 
Newbridge Road 
Punchbowl Road 
Roberts Road 
Rookwood Road 
Stacey Street 
Stacey Street 
The River Road 
M5 Motorway 
Wiley Avenue 
Wiley Avenue 
Woodville Road 

Davies Road 
Hume Highway 
Rookwood Road 
Milperra Road 
Fairford Road 
Stacey Street 
Hume Highway 
City Boundary 
Waterloo Road 
Newbridge Road 
City Boundary 
Canterbury Road 
Hume Highway 
Hume Highway 
Rookwood Road 
Fairford Road 
Canterbury Road 
City Boundary 
Roberts Road 
Roberts Road 
Hume Highway 

City Boundary 
Waterloo Road 
Hume Highway 
Punchbowl Road 
Alfords Point Road 
Davies Road 
City Boundary 
City Boundary 
Punchbowl Road 
Canterbury Road 
Milperra Road 
City Boundary 
Wiley Avenue 
City Boundary 
Fairford Road 
Canterbury Road 
M5 Motorway 
City Boundary 
Koala Road 
Punchbowl Road 
City Boundary 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B9 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 3–IMPACT ON NEIGHBOURHOOD 

Consideration 

3.1  A matter of consideration is whether the operation of a sex services premises 
is likely to cause a disturbance in the neighbourhood, taking into account other 
sex services premises operating in the neighbourhood or other land use within 
the  neighbourhood  involving  similar  hours  of  operation  and  creating  similar 
levels of noise and vehicular and pedestrian traffic. 

Development controls 

The development controls are: 

Impact on neighbourhood 

3.2  Consideration  will  be  given  to  the  impact  of  sex  services  premises  given 
activities with similar operating hours in the area.  This would include massage 
parlours,  adult  bookshops  and  other  restricted  premises,  licensed  premises, 
pubs  /  hotels,  nightclubs,  other  sensitive  uses  and  the  like.    Sex  services 
premises should not locate within 200 metres of this type of use, or within 200 
metres of another sex services premises. 

SECTION 4–PARKING 

Consideration 

4.1  A matter of consideration is whether sufficient off–street parking is provided. 

Development controls 

The development controls are: 

Parking 

4.2  The minimum number of car parking spaces required for sex services premises 

is 1.5 car space per service room. 

4.3  Stacked  parking  is  not  acceptable.  Parking  areas  must  be  located,  designed 

and lit to maximise safety of workers and clients. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B9 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 5–ACCESS 

Consideration 

5.1  A matter of consideration is whether suitable access is provided. 

Development controls 

The development controls are: 

Accessibility 

5.2  Sex  services  premises  will  be  regarded  in  a  similar  way  to  any  other  traffic 
generating  use.    Safe  vehicle  and  pedestrian  access  must  be  provided 
appropriate for the size of operation proposed. 

5.3  Sex  services  premises  should,  wherever  possible,  provide  access  for  people 
with  disabilities  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of  the  Building  Code  of 
Australia.    Larger  establishments  (over  5  rooms)  must  provide  a  minimum  of 
one  room  with  an  ensuite  located  and  designed  to  be  suitable  for  use  by 
people with disabilities. 

SECTION 6–AMENITY 

Consideration 

6.1  Matters of consideration are: 

(a)  Whether the operation of the sex services premises causes a disturbance 
in the neighbourhood because of its size or the number of people working 
in it; and 

(b)  Whether  the  operation  of  the  sex  services  premises  interferes  with  the 

amenity of the neighbourhood. 

Development controls 

The development controls are: 

Amenity 

6.2  The scale of the operation proposed should be appropriate for the surrounding 
area.  Sex services premises should not cause difficulties with parking, access 
or safety/security for the surrounding premises. 

6.3  No  sex  services  premises  must  have  more  than  10  rooms  for  clients  (not 

including offices, sanitary facilities, storerooms and the like). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B9 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

6.4  Noise, traffic, and any other relevant factors (depending on the size and nature 
of  the  operation  proposed)  will  be  assessed  with  a  view  to  ensuring  that  the 
use does not have a negative impact on the surrounding area. 

SECTION 7–BUSINESS AND BUILDING IDENTIFICATION SIGNS 

Consideration 

7.1  A matter of consideration is the types of signs or structures. 

Development controls 

The development controls are: 

Advertising structures 

7.2  Flashing signs or lights, or signs  which include colours or designs which may 
distract  passing  motorists  will  not  be  permitted.    Signs  must  not  include 
offensive or suggestive material.  Signs should not be erected on any railway 
frontage  of  a  site,  unless  this  is  also  the  road  frontage.    Signs  shall  only  be 
illuminated if it will not cause nuisance to any adjoining properties nor interfere 
with the amenity of the neighbourhood. 

7.3  Only one sign will be permitted per premises and the total permissible area of 
the  sign  must  not  exceed  1.1  square  metres.    It  should  clearly  indicate  the 
name of the operator, the name of the premises and that entry is prohibited to 
underage  persons.    It  should  be  noted  that  it  is  illegal  under  the  Summary 
Offences Act to advertise prostitution services. 

SECTION 8–SAFETY AND SECURITY 

Consideration 

8.1  A matter of consideration is the safety of clients and workers. 

Development controls 

The development controls are: 

Safety and security 

8.2  The safety of clients and workers should be protected at all times.  Applications 
submitted should include details on security arrangements to reduce the risk to 
persons  visiting  the  site.    Design  of  car  parks,  landscaping  and  entry  areas 
should facilitate casual or formal observation.  Car parks and entrances should 
be well lit and, where necessary, security staff employed. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B9 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

8.3  Sex services premises should not locate in an isolated area, unless extensive 
security  arrangements  are  made.    This  is  to  assist  in  providing  a  safe 
environment  for  clients  and  workers  and  to  reduce  the  likelihood  that  sex 
services premises will be associated with criminal activities.  The assistance of 
the  NSW  Police  will  be  sought  when  assessing  this  particular  aspect  of  an 
application. 

8.4  The  privacy  of  patrons  must  be  considered  through  the  design  and  internal 

layout of the premises. 

SECTION 9–VISUAL AMENITY 

Consideration 

9.1  A matter of consideration is the likely visual or traffic impact (if any) on a main 

road. 

Development controls 

The development controls are: 

Visual amenity 

9.2  Sex services premises are not permitted to front state roads. 

9.3  Sex services premises may locate in a complex of industrial units which have 
an  entrance on  a  state  road  if  the  individual  unit  does not  have  frontage  to a 
state road, and is located at least 100 metres away from the state road. 

SECTION 10–HEALTH 

Consideration 

10.1  A  matter  of  consideration  is  whether  the  health  of  workers  and  clients  are 

protected. 

Development controls 

The development controls are: 

Health 

10.2  Separate  toilet  and  shower  facilities  must  be  provided  for  staff.    Sanitary 
facilities  must  be  kept  clean  at  all  times  and  include  adequate  provision  of 
soap dispensers, electronic dryers or single use towels. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B9 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

10.3  Ensuites must be provided to each room, including a toilet, shower and hand 

basin.  Clean towels must be supplied for every client. 

This clause is applied to protect the health of workers and clients.  Should it 
not be met to the satisfaction of Council, then applications may be refused. 

SECTION 11–MANAGEMENT ISSUES 

Consideration 

11.1  Matters of consideration are hours of operation and health. 

Development controls 

The development controls are: 

Management issues 

11.2  The hours of operation of a sex services premises must be appropriate for the 

area and the surrounding uses. 

11.3  All  sex  services  premises  must  comply  with  the  standards  for  Class  5 
buildings  (an  office  building  used  for  professional  or  commercial  purposes) 
under the Building Code of Australia. 

11.4  Mattresses are to be hospital accredited standard. 

11.5  Linen must be changed after each client.  It must be washed to the standards 
of a commercial laundry, with water temperatures reaching a minimum of 40 
degrees  Celsius.   Clean  and dirty  linen  must  be  stored  separately.    Storage 
areas  should  be  indicated  on  the  plan  accompanying  the  development 
application. 

11.6  Food preparation areas must be kept clean at all times. 

11.7  Spa  baths  within  individual  rooms  should  be  emptied,  cleaned  and  refilled 
after each use.  Maintenance of all pools or spa baths must comply with the 
NSW  Ministry  of  Health’s  Guidelines  for  Disinfecting  Public  Swimming  and 
Spa Pools. 

11.8 

Information  on  safe  sex,  sexually  transmitted  diseases  and  good  sexual 
health  practices  must  be  freely  available  in  English  and  a  variety  of 
community 
in  a 
waiting/reception area and be clearly visible to anyone entering the premises.  
All information provided must be medically accurate. 

to  be  displayed 

information 

languages. 

  This 

is 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B9 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

11.9  Condoms  must  be  provided  free  of  charge  by  the  operator  to  workers  and 
clients.  Supply via condom vending machines is prohibited.  Condoms must 
be  stored  away  from  heat  and  direct  light  to  ensure  that  they  do  not 
deteriorate prematurely. 

11.10  Contaminated  waste  must  be  collected  and  disposed  of  by  persons  holding 
the  appropriate  licence  from  the  relevant  public  authority.    Used  condoms 
must  be  double  bagged  and  placed  in  specific  and  clearly  marked  waste 
receptacles  on  the  premises.    All  sharps  must  be  placed  in  non  reusable 
sharps containers which comply with AS4031–1992.  These containers must 
be  clearly  marked  and  placed  in  all  work  rooms  and  rooms  containing 
sanitary  facilities.    Details  of  waste  collection  must  be  provided  with  the 
development application. 

11.11  All premises must comply with any guidelines issued by the NSW Ministry of 

Health and WorkCover NSW. 

11.12  Maintenance of all public swimming pools or spa pools must comply with the 
NSW  Ministry  of  Health’s  Public  Swimming  Pool  and  Spa  Pool  Advisory 
Document 2013. 

SECTION 12–RELATED INFORMATION 

Closure of sex services premises 

12.1  Council may seek an order of the Court to close a sex services premises in 

either or both the following circumstances: 

(a)  operation without consent 

For a sex services premises to operate legally, development consent must be 
obtained from the Council and the details and conditions of that consent must 
be  complied  with.    If  a  premises  is  operating  as  a  sex  services  premises 
without  consent,  or  an  approved  sex  services  premises  has  substantially 
altered its operation, Council will seek an order to close the premises as an 
unauthorised  use.    This  is  to  protect  both  the  operators  of  sex  services 
premises  who  have  sought  consent  from  competition  from  unauthorised 
operators  and  to  protect  the  community  from  inappropriately  located  or 
unregulated premises. 

(b)  operation having a negative impact on the amenity of the area 

If Council receives complaints from residents or occupiers of premises within 
the  vicinity  of  the  sex  services  premises,  or  residents  whose  children  use 
facilities  within  the  vicinity  of  the  sex  services  premises,  Council  may  take 
action through the Court to have the premises closed.  An application to close 
a  sex  services  premises  must  be  based  on  one  or  more  of  the  following 
factors: 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B9 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(i) 

the  proximity  of  the  premises  to  a  church,  school,  community  facility, 
hospital, medical centre, and any place regularly frequented by children 
for recreational or cultural activities; 

(ii)  whether  the  operation  of  a  sex  services  premises  is  likely  to  cause  a 
disturbance  in  the  neighbourhood  when  taking  into  account  other  sex 
services  premises  operating  in  the  neighbourhood  or  other  land  use 
within  the  neighbourhood  involving  similar  hours  of  operation  and 
creating similar amounts of noise and vehicular and pedestrian traffic; 

(iii)  whether sufficient off street parking has been provided; 

(iv)  whether suitable access has been provided; 

(v)  whether 

the  operation  of 

the  sex  services  premises  causes  a 
disturbance  in  the neighbourhood because of  its  size  or  the number  of 
people working in it; and 

(vi)  whether  the  operation  of  the  sex  services  premises  interferes  with  the 

amenity of the neighbourhood. 

The Court may also take into account any other planning matter which it may 
consider relevant. 

Responsibilities of operators 

12.2  The operator of a sex services premises must be responsible for the conduct 
of their clients in the same way that a publican is responsible for the conduct 
of their patrons.  This particularly applies to the conduct of clients leaving the 
premises.    Operators  are  also  responsible  for  reporting  any  suspicion  of 
criminal activity occurring on their premises to the NSW Police. 

Making a development application 

12.3  The  operation  of  a  sex  services  premises  within  the  City  of  Bankstown 
  Development  applications  must  be 

requires  development  approval. 
submitted to the Council with the following information: 

(a)  a plan showing: 

(i) 

location  of  the  proposed  premises,  showing  the  position  of  the 
block  in  relation  to  any  schools,  churches,  community  facilities, 
hospitals,  medical  centres  or  any  place  regularly  frequented  by 
children for recreational or cultural activities (if relevant); 

(ii) 

the  distance  to  any  residential  areas  or  properties  used  for 
residential purposes; 

(iii)  position of the building on the block of land, including distance from 

boundaries; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B9 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(iv) 

floor  layout  of  the  building,  including  the  proposed  use  of  each 
room; 

(v) 

location, number and layout of any parking (existing and proposed) 
on the land; 

(vi) 

location of any landscaping (existing and proposed) on the land; 

(vii)  location,  size,  content,  colour,  illumination  and  number  of  any 

proposed signs; 

(viii)  details of the ‘shopfront’ treatment, where applicable; 

(ix)  details of the existing and proposed external lighting. 

(b)  a written statement including: 

(i) 

number of employees; 

(ii)  hours of operation; 

(iii)  general  operating  procedure,  including  measures  proposed  to 
ensure health and cleanliness standards as contained in this policy 
are met; 

(iv)  details  on  measures  proposed  to  safeguard  workers  and  clients.  
This  should  include  details  of  lighting  of  outside  areas,  security 
personnel; and 

(v)  details for disposal of contaminated waste. 

12.4  All applications for sex services premises will be referred to the NSW Police.  
This  is  in  accordance  with  the  agreement  between  the  Local  Government 
NSW and the NSW Police. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B9 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown 
Development 
Control 
Plan 2015 

PART B10 

TELECOMMUNICATIONS  
FACILITIES   

 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

CONTENTS 

Section 1 

Introduction   

Section 2 

Location 

Section 3 

Urban Design 

3 

5 

7 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B10 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 1–INTRODUCTION 

Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015 is Council's principal planning document 
to  regulate  effective  and  orderly  development  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.    The  LEP 
provides  objectives,  zones  and  development  standards  such  as  lot  sizes  and  floor 
space ratios. 

Part  B10  of  Bankstown  Development  Control  Plan  2015  supplements  the  LEP  by 
providing  additional  objectives  and  development  controls  to  enhance  the  location 
and design of telecommunications facilities in the City of Bankstown. 

Part B10 generally applies to land in the City of Bankstown where the zone allows 
telecommunications  facilities  under  the  provisions  of  the  State  Environmental 
Planning Policy (Infrastructure) 2007. 

However,  Council  is  not  the  consent  authority  for  telecommunications  facilities 
regulated  by  the  Telecommunications  (Low–Impact  Facilities)  Determination  1997 
such as low–impact telecommunications facilities. 

Objectives 

The objectives of Part B10 of this DCP are: 

(a)  To have a consistent and integrated planning framework to: 

(i) 

address community interests, and 

(ii)  achieve environmental, economic, and social sustainability in the effective 

and efficient provision of telecommunications facilities. 

(b)  To  have  a  consistent  approach  that  benefits  Council,  the  community,  and 

carriers. 

(c)  To  have  a  consistent  approach  that  balances  the  needs  of  different 
stakeholders  including  the  community,  industry,  Council  and  government 
agencies. 

(d)  To have guidelines for carriers in the siting and design of telecommunications 

facilities. 

Definitions 

For the purposes of Part B10: 

ACIF  Code  means  the  Code  for  the  Deployment  of  Radiocommunications 
Infrastructure 2002. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B10 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Co–location  means  the  siting  of  a  number  of  telecommunications  facilities,  often 
owned by different carriers, in one location. 

Cumulative  impact  means  the  impact  of  radiation  from  various  sources  or  over 
time. 

Electromagnetic  radiation  (EMR)  means  the  radiation  in  the  microwave  and 
radiofrequency band of the electromagnetic spectrum. 

Low  impact  facility  means  a  facility  that  is  exempt  from  state  and  council  local 
planning  under  the  Telecommunications  (Low–impact  Facilities)  Determination 
1997. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B10 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 2–LOCATION 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  have  areas  that  are  suitable  to  locate  telecommunications  facilities  in  the 

City of Bankstown. 

(b)  To  have  telecommunications  facilities  that  are  compatible  with  the  character 
and  visual  context  of  an  adjoining  area,  with  particular  regard  to  heritage 
buildings and cultural icons. 

(c)  To  have  telecommunications  facilities  that  minimise  any  adverse  impacts  on 

the natural environment. 

(d)  To  have  a  precautionary  approach  to  the  deployment  of  telecommunications 

facilities. 

(e)  To have telecommunications facilities that minimise the EMR exposures to the 

public. 

(f)  To  have 

the  general  public  and 

local  communities  able 

to  access 

telecommunications technology. 

(g)  To have  equity  for  the  various  stakeholders by  endeavouring  to  balance  their 

various needs. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Location 

2.1  An applicant must demonstrate that, in selecting a site for telecommunications 
it  has  adopted  a 
including  domestic  satellite  dishes), 
facilities 
precautionary approach to minimise the EMR exposures to the public by: 

(not 

(a)  providing written confirmation that the proposed facility complies with the 
relevant  Australian  exposure  standard  as  prescribed  by  the  Australian 
Communications Authority; 

(b)  providing a site and locality analysis plan (refer to Appendix 1); and 

(c)  providing  a  360  degree  prediction  map  illustrating  the  EMR  exposure 
levels  and  cumulative  impact  of  the  proposed  facility  (refer  to  Appendix 
1). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B10 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2.2  Telecommunications  facilities  (not  including  domestic  satellite  dishes)  must 
avoid  locations  where  it  may  affect  sensitive  or  likely  sensitive  land  uses.    A 
sensitive land use may include: 

(a)  a  place  where  occupants  stay  for  long  periods  of  time  (such  as  a 

dwelling); 

(b)  a place where children frequent (such as a school or child care centre); or 

(c)  a  place  where  people  stay  due  to  particular  health  problems  (such  as  a 

hospital or aged care facility). 

2.3  Telecommunications facilities (not including domestic satellite dishes) must not 

locate: 

(a)  on a heritage item; 

(b) 

in the vicinity of a heritage item; 

(c) 

in an area of heritage significance; or 

(d) 

in an area that will impact on endemic flora and fauna. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B10 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 3–URBAN DESIGN 

Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To have the external appearance of telecommunications facilities promote the 

principles of good urban design. 

(b)  To  have  telecommunications  facilities  that  are  visually  compatible  with  the 
character and visual context of neighbouring buildings or an adjoining area. 

(c)  To  have  sites 

restored  after 

the  discontinuation  or 

removal  of 

telecommunications facilities. 

(d)  To have the public able to adequately identify the agency responsible for each 

telecommunications facility. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Visual amenity 

3.1  An applicant must consider the range of available alternate infrastructure, such 
as  low–impact  telecommunications  facilities  and  underground  cables,  to 
minimise  the  visual  and  cumulative  visual  impact  on  a  building,  structure,  or 
streetscape. 

3.2  Where  it  is  not  possible  to  comply  with  clause  3.1,  an  applicant  must  locate 
and design telecommunications facilities to minimise the visual and cumulative 
visual  impact  on a  building,  structure,  or  streetscape.    Measures may  include 
but not be limited to: 

(a)  avoiding landmarks or places of cultural or heritage significance; 

(b)  avoiding the obstruction or interruption of significant public views; 

(c) 

locating a telecommunications facility where it is not visible to the street; 

(d) 

integrating  a  facility  with  the  architectural  facade  elements  or  roof  of  a 
building or structure; 

(e)  screening a facility using building elements or landscaping; 

(f)  minimising the clutter of facilities on a single building or structure; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B10 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(g) 

respecting  an  existing  well–designed  facility  should  the  proposal  involve 
co–location; 

(h)  choosing  appropriate  colours  and  textures  to  match  the  colour  and 

pattern of the background; 

(i) 

concealing associated feeder cables from public view; or 

(j) 

any other measures to the satisfaction of Council. 

Supporting documents to illustrate compliance with clause 3.2 must include a 
site and locality analysis plan (refer to Appendix 1). 

3.3  Despite  clause  3.1,  Council  may  not  support 

the  co–location  of 

telecommunications facilities as a desirable option where: 

(a) 

the cumulative impact is a consideration; 

(b) 

it is not visually acceptable; 

(c) 

there  are  physical  and  technical  limits  to  the  amount  of  infrastructure  a 
structure can support; or 

(d) 

the location cannot achieve the required coverage. 

Height 

3.4  The  height  of 

telecommunications 
Neighbourhood Centre or Zone B2 Local Centre must: 

facilities  on 

land  within  Zone  B1 

(a)  consider the scale of surrounding development; and 

(b)  should not protrude above the skyline where the height limit for adjoining 

buildings is two storeys. 

Domestic satellite dishes 

3.5  Domestic  satellite  dishes  within  Zone  R2  Low  Density  Residential,  Zone  R3 
Medium Density Residential and Zone R4 High Density Residential must: 

(a) 

locate below the ridgeline of a roof; 

(b) 

locate behind the front building line so as not to be visible to the street; 

(c)  achieve a minimum 3 metre setback from the allotment boundaries; and 

(d)  ensure  the  installation  of  the  domestic  satellite  dish  to  a  building  or 

structure is safe and secure. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B10 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

3.6  Residential flat buildings are limited to a single satellite dish with the capability 

for all dwellings to connect to the satellite dish. 

Construction standards and access 

3.7  An applicant must consider the range of available alternate infrastructure, such 
as  new  technologies,  to  minimise  unnecessary  or  incidental  EMR  emissions 
and exposures as prescribed by the ACIF Code. 

3.8  The construction of telecommunications facilities must comply with the relevant 

Australian Standards. 

3.9  The  design  of  telecommunications  facilities  must  restrict  public  access  to  an 

antenna. 

3.10  Telecommunications  facilities  must  display  a  legible  weatherproof  sign  to 
publicly  advise  the  name  and  contact  details  of  the  carrier,  operator  or  site 
manager. 

3.11  A  carrier  must  remove  telecommunications  facilities  where  it  is  no  longer  in 

use. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B10 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1–Preparing development applications 

Development  applications  must  submit  the  prerequisite  information  required  by 
Council together with the following documents: 

1 

Site and locality analysis plan 

A site and locality analysis plan establishes the context of an area by illustrating the 
opportunities  and  constraints  of  the  proposed  site  in  relation  to  the  immediate 
surroundings.  This process should influence the suitability of the proposed location 
and design. 

A  site  and  locality  analysis  plan  must  illustrate  the  following  features  within  a  300 
metre radius of the proposed site: 

(a)  site boundaries; 

(b) 

topography; 

(c) 

location of existing buildings; 

(d)  views to and from the proposed site; 

(e) 

location of any sensitive land use on the site or adjacent area; and 

(f) 

any areas of endemic flora and fauna on the site. 

The site and analysis plan must also attach a photo montage of the proposed facility 
within the context of the location. 

2  Map of exposure levels 

An applicant must submit a 360 degree prediction map of exposure levels  within a 
300  metre  radius  of  the  proposed  site  and  measuring  1.5  metres  above  natural 
ground level. 

The map must also provide: 

(a) 

information as to the carrier’s existing infrastructure in the area; 

(b)  an EMR assessment as prescribed by the ACIF Code; and 

(c)  compliance  evidence  or  professional  certification  that  the  exposure  details 

contained in the application are true and accurate. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B10 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown 
Development 
Control 
Plan 2015 

PART B11 

TREE 
PRESERVATION 
ORDER 

 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

CONTENTS 

Section 1 

Introduction   

Section 2 

Tree Management   

Section 3 

Definitions 

3 

4 

9 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B11 
March 2015 (Amended December 2015) 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 1–INTRODUCTION 

Trees are a vital component of the urban environment of the City of Bankstown. They 
provide  essential  ecological,  environmental,  social,  health,  heritage  and  amenity 
values, all contributing to make the City of Bankstown a pleasant place to live and 
work.  As  well  as  these  direct  values  to  residents,  urban  trees  also  have  equally 
important  values  in  their  own  right  in  maintaining  and  enhancing  biodiversity  and 
natural ecosystems and processes. 

The entirety of the trees and large woody shrubs that grow on all public and private 
land form Bankstown’s Urban Forest. 

Council has a vision for a clean, green, healthy and bio-diverse natural environment. 
A  canopy  of  trees  that  shelter  and  beautify  the  City  of  Bankstown  is  an  integral 
component of that vision. 

Part B11 of the Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015 contains the controls for 
tree  management  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.  Part  B11  is  made  pursuant  to  clause 
5.9(2) of Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015 and applies to all land in the City 
of Bankstown. 

Objectives 

The objectives of Part B11 of this DCP are: 

(a)  To sustainably manage the tree resources to improve the visual, physical and 

environmental amenity of the City of Bankstown. 

(b)  To  promote  the  use  of  professional  standards  and  best  practices  in  tree 

management. 

(c)  To list the controls for the pruning, removal and replacement planting of trees in 

the City of Bankstown. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B11 
March 2015 (Amended December 2015) 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 2–TREE MANAGEMENT 

Introduction 

This section provides the controls for the pruning, removal and replacement planting 
of trees in the City of Bankstown. 

Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

Works requiring consent 

2.1  A person must not ringbark, cut down, top, lop, prune, remove, injure or wilfully 
destroy any prescribed tree defined in clause 2.3 or carry out excavation and 
earthworks within the tree protection zone except with the approval of Council 
and in accordance with any conditions imposed with this approval. 

2.2  Development consent is required to remove any tree: 

(a) 

located on a property listed as a heritage item in Schedule 5 of Bankstown 
Local Environmental Plan 2015; or 

(b) 

located  on  biodiversity  lands  listed  on  the  Biodiversity  Protection  Map 
under the Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015. 

Prescribed trees 

2.3  Part B11 applies to: 

(a)  all trees that are 5.0 metres or more in height; and 

(b)  all mangroves, regardless of size; and 

(c)  all  trees,  regardless  of  size,  listed  as  Vulnerable  or  Endangered  or  a 
component  of  an  Endangered  Ecological  Community  listed  under  the 
Threatened Species Conservation Act 1995; and 

(d)  all trees, regardless of size, listed under the Environmental Protection and 

Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999; and 

(e)  all trees, regardless of size, located on properties listed as a heritage item 

in Schedule 5 of Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015; and 

(f) 

all  trees,  regardless  of  size,  located  on  biodiversity  lands  listed  on  the 
Biodiversity  Protection  Map  under  Bankstown  Local  Environmental  Plan 
2015; and 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B11 
March 2015 (Amended December 2015) 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(g)  all  trees,  regardless  of  size,  located  in  the  foreshore  area  under  the 

Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015. 

Exempt works 

2.4  Despite clause 2.3, Part B11 does not apply to: 

(a)  Trees  located  within  3.0  metres  of  the  external  wall  of  an  approved 
dwelling,  not  including  a  secondary  dwelling.  The  distance  shall  be 
measured from the external wall of the approved dwelling to the centre of 
the trunk of the tree at 1.4 metres above ground level. 

(b)  The following tree species: 

Scientific Name 
Acacia baileyana 
Acacia podalyriifolia 
Acacia saligna  
Ailanthus altissima 
Bambusa spp. 
Celtis sinensis 
Cinnamomum camphora 
Citrus limon cvs. 
Citrus reticulata cvs. 
Citrus sinensis cvs 
Citrus x paradisi cvs 
Eriobotrya japonica 
Erythrina x sykseii 
Eucalyptus nicholii 
Eucalyptus scoparia 
Ficus elastica and cvs. 
Gleditsia triacanthos 
Ligustrum lucidum 
Ligustrum sinense 
Liquidambar styraciflua 
Malus domestica and cvs.  
Mangifera indica 
Morus spp. 
Musa spp. 
Olea europaea subspecies africana 
Phoenix canariensis 
Phyllostachys spp. 
Pinus spp. 
Populus spp. 
Prunus avium / P. cerasus and cvs.  Cherry Tree 
Prunus persica and cvs. 
Peach Tree 
Prunus spp. and cvs. 
Plum Tree 
Prunus spp. and cvs. 
Apricot Tree 
Pyrus communis and cvs. 
European Pear 

Common Name 
Cootamundra Wattle 
Queensland Silver Wattle 
Golden Wattle 
Tree of Heaven 
Bamboo 
Hackberry 
Camphor Laurel 
Lemon Tree 
Mandarin Tee 
Orange Tree 
Grapefruit Tree 
Loquat Tree 
Common Coral Tree 
Narrow-leafed Peppermint 
Willow Gum 
Rubber Tree 
Honey Locust 
Broad-leaf Privet 
Narrow-leaf Privet 
Liquidambar 
Apple Tree 
Mango Tree 
Mulberry Tree 
Banana 
African Olive 
Canary Island Date Palm 
Rhizomatous Bamboo 
Pine Trees 
Poplars 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B11 
March 2015 (Amended December 2015) 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Robinia pseudoacacia and cvs 
Salix spp. 
Schefflera actinophylla 
Schinus terebinthifolius 
Syagrus romanzoffiana 
Toxicodendron succedaneum 
X Cupressocyparis leylandii and cvs.  Leyland Cypress 

Robinia 
Willow Tree 
Umbrella Tree 
Broad-leaf Pepper Tree 
Cocos Palm 
Rhus Tree 

(c)  Plants declared a Noxious Weed under the Noxious Weeds Act 1993. 

(d)  Dead trees where they are not required as habitat for native fauna. 

(e)  Dangerous  trees  where  it  can  be  proved  by  the  owner  to  Council’s 
satisfaction that pruning or removal is the only reasonable option to avoid 
an imminent threat to human life or property. 

(f)  Recognised horticultural varieties of trees grown for fruit production. 

(g)  Selective pruning of up to a total of 10% of the crown of an indigenous tree 
and up to a total of 20% of the crown of an exotic tree species over a 12 
month  period.  Branches  pruned  must  be  no  greater  than  150  mm  in 
diameter. Pruning works must comply with Australian Standard AS 4373-
2007  Pruning  of  Amenity  Trees,  and  consist  of  the  following  pruning 
classes only: 

Crown Maintenance: 
• 
• 
• 

Deadwooding 
Crown thinning 
Selective pruning 

Crown Modification: 
• 
• 
• 
• 

Reduction pruning 
Crown lifting 
Remedial pruning 
Line clearance 

NOTE: Clause 2.4 (g) does not apply to any tree: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

the  Environmental  Protection  and  Biodiversity 

listed  as  Vulnerable  or  Endangered  or  a  component  of  an 
Endangered  Ecological  Community  listed  under  the  Threatened 
Species Conservation Act 1995; or 
listed  under 
Conservation Act 1999; or 
located  on  a  property  listed  as  a  heritage  item  in  Schedule  5  of 
Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015; or 
located on biodiversity lands listed on the Biodiversity Protection Map 
under Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015; or 
located in a Conservation Corridor; or 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B11 
March 2015 (Amended December 2015) 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

• 

located in the foreshore area under Bankstown Local Environmental 
Plan 2015. 

(h)  Pruning of palms to remove fruit and dead fronds. 

(i)  Trees listed for removal under a current Development Consent. 

(j)  Tree works lawfully conducted in accordance with the Forestry Act 1916, 
Telecommunications Act 1997, the Airports Act 1996, the Roads Act 1993, 
the  Rural  Fires  Act  1997,  the  Electricity  Supply  Act  1995,  the  State 
Emergency and Rescue Management Act 1989, the Surveying and Spatial 
Information  Act  2002,  and  an  Order  issued  under  the  Tree  (Disputes 
between Neighbours) Act 2006. 

Matters for Consideration 

2.5  Council  will  consider  –  but  not  be  limited  to  –  the  following  matters  when 

determining an application to prune or remove a tree: 

(a) 

the suitability of the tree for site conditions; 

(b) 

the condition of the tree; 

(c) 

the contribution of the tree to the local landscape; 

(d) 

the environmental contribution of the tree; 

(e) 

the impact of the tree on the property and associated infrastructure; 

(f) 

the amenity of the occupants of the property. 

NOTE:  The  dropping  of  leaves,  flowers,  fruits,  seeds  or  small  elements  of 
deadwood are part of a trees normal life cycle, and ordinarily will not provide the 
basis for the pruning or removal of the tree. 

Approval granted by Council 

2.6  A permit granted by Council is valid for a period of 12 months from the date of 

issue. 

2.7  The  permit  must  be  issued  to  the  owner  of  the  property  on  which  the  tree  is 

located. 

2.8  A copy of the permit must be on site during the course of the works, and must 
be  produced  by  the  person  undertaking  the  work  on  demand  by  a  Council 
Officer. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B11 
March 2015 (Amended December 2015) 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2.9  A  permit  granted  by  Council  or  development  consent  may  be  subject  to  the 
requirement  to  plant  suitable  replacement  trees  on  the  property,  offset  tree 
planting, or any other conditions deemed suitable by Council. The replacement 
planting  shall  be  completed  within  28  days  of  the  tree  removal  works,  or  as 
otherwise specified by Council. 

Refusal 

2.10  Council may refuse in full or in part an application made under Part B11. 

Appeals 

2.11  An applicant may appeal Councils decision if they believe: 

(a)  Council has erred in its judgement, or 

(b)  Council’s decision is harsh or unreasonable, or 

(c)  additional information has become available subsequent to the inspection 

by Council. 

An  appeal  must  be  lodged  within  three  months  of  the  date  of  Councils 
determination.  Council may require the appellant to provide reports or other 
suitable  documentation  from  appropriately  qualified  consultants  or  experts 
relevant to the basis of the appeal. 

Penalties 

2.12  A  person(s)  who  contravenes  or  causes  or  permits  this  Part  B11  to  be 

contravened shall be guilty of an offence and liable for prosecution. 

A  person  found  guilty  of  contravening  or  causing  or  permitting  the 
contravention of this Plan shall be liable for a fine of up to 10,000 Penalty Units 
or as increased from time to time. 

In  addition  to  a  fine,  the  Court  may  also  require  the  person  to  replace  the 
damaged or destroyed tree/s and maintain such tree/s until maturity. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B11 
March 2015 (Amended December 2015) 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 3–DEFINITIONS 

Approved Dwelling: For the purposes of Part B11, an approved dwelling means a 
dwelling  with  development  consent  or  complying  development  consent  under  the 
Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979 to the satisfaction of Council. 

Arborist:  A  person  with  training  to  AQF  Level  3  in  Arboriculture,  or  above,  or 
equivalent recognized and relevant experience. 

Australian Qualification Framework (AQF): A national framework for education and 
training in Australia. 

Consultant Arborist: A person with training to AQF Level 5 in Arboriculture, and/or 
equivalent experience. 

Crown: The portion of the tree consisting of branches and leaves and any part of the 
trunk (or stem) from which branches arise. 

Crown Lifting: The removal of lower branches. 

Crown  Thinning:  Reducing  the  crown  density  of  the  tree  by  removing  smaller 
branches and retaining the major structural branches. 

Dead  Tree:  A  tree  that  no  longer  has  a  functioning  xylem  and/or  phloem  system; 
evidenced  by  permanent  leaf  loss,  permanent  desiccation  of  branches  and  stems, 
and bark peeling off back to the sapwood. 

Deadwood: Dead branches within the crown of a tree. 

Deadwooding: The removal of dead branches. 

Dwelling: For the purposes of Part B11, means a room or suite of rooms occupied or 
used or so constructed or adapted as to be capable of being occupied as a separate 
domicile, but does not include permanent fixed structures such as deck, garages and 
similar structures that are attached to the building. 

Exotic Tree: A tree species not originating from Australia. 

Indigenous  Tree:  A  tree  species  that  existed  in  the  State  before  European 
settlement. 

Injury: Damage to the trunk, crown or root system of a tree or any other activity that 
is  likely  to  compromise  the  health  and/or  structure  of  the  tree,  including  trenching, 
excavating or soil level changes within the tree protection zone (TPZ) of the tree. 

Line  Clearance:  Pruning  to  maintain  safety  clearances around  overhead  services. 
The minimum safety clearance for insulated cable with less than 100m span length is 
0.5  metres.  (Ref:  ISSC  3  Guidelines  for  Managing  Vegetation  Near  Power  Lines, 
December 2005). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B11 
March 2015 (Amended December 2015) 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Lop: Cutting branches or stems between branch unions or internodes. 

Prescribed Tree: A tree listed under clause 2.3 of Part B11. 

Prune: The systematic removal of branches. Pruning is not lopping, topping, or the 
cutting back of branches flush with the stem or trunk. 

Reduction Pruning: Reducing the length of a branch by pruning it back to an internal 
branch or stem. 

Remedial Pruning: The removal of diseased, damaged or lopped branches back to 
undamaged or healthy tissue on trees that have already lost their nature structure due 
to disease, storm damage or other mechanical injury. 

Ringbark: A  circumferential  cut  made around  the trunk  of  a  tree which  removes  a 
band of tissue to the depth of and including the cambium. 

Secondary Dwelling: A self-contained dwelling that: 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 

is established in conjunction with another dwelling (the principal dwelling), and 
is on the same lot of land as the principal dwelling, and 
is located within, or is attached to, or is separate from, the principal dwelling. 

Selective  Pruning:  Pruning  or  removing  branches  that  are  causing  a  specific 
problem. 

Structural Root Zone (SRZ): Is the area required for tree stability. The SRZ is a radial 
distance  measured  from  the  trunk  of  the  tree  calculated  in  accordance  with  s.3  of 
Australian Standard AS 4970-2009 Protection of trees on development sites. 

Top: Reducing the height of a tree by lopping the branches or stems. 

Tree: For the purposes of this Plan, a tree is defined as a long lived perennial plant 
greater than 5 metres in height with one or relatively few main stems or trunks. 

Tree Protection Zone (TPZ): Is the area above and below ground required for tree 
viability. The TPZ is a radial distance measured from the trunk of the tree calculated 
in accordance with s.3 of Australian Standard AS 4970-2009 Protection of trees on 
development sites. 

Urban Forest: The totality of trees and shrubs on all public and private land in and 
around urban areas (including bushland, parkland, gardens, and street trees) and is 
measured  as  a  canopy  cover  percentage  of  the  total  area,  and  is  recognised  as  a 
primary component of the urban ecosystem. (Local Government NSW Urban Forestry 
Policy). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B11 
March 2015 (Amended December 2015) 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown 
Development 
Control 
Plan 2015 

PART B12 

FLOOD RISK 
MANAGEMENT 

 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

CONTENTS 

Section 1 

Introduction   

Section 2 

Criteria for determining applications 

Section 3 

Controls 

Section 4 

Special considerations 

Section 5 

Fencing 

Section 6 

Schedules 

Section 7 

Explanatory notes on lodging applications 

Section 8 

Definitions 

3 

5 

7 

10 

16 

17 

62 

65 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 1–INTRODUCTION 

Bankstown Local Environmental Plan 2015 is Council's principal planning document 
to  regulate  effective  and  orderly  development  in  the  City  of  Bankstown.    The  LEP 
provides  objectives,  zones  and  development  standards  such  as  lot  sizes  and  floor 
space ratios. 

Part  B12  of  Bankstown  Development  Control  Plan  2015  supplements  the  LEP  by 
providing additional objectives and development controls to control the development 
of flood liable land in the City of Bankstown. 

Part B12 applies to all flood liable land in the City of Bankstown.  Flood liable land 
identified by the Georges River Flood Risk Management Plan is depicted in Map 1.  
Other  flood  liable  land  for  catchments  that  are  affected  by  stormwater  flooding  is 
being  identified  through  an  ongoing  flood  risk  management  process,  but  may  also 
be  identified  through a  site  specific flood  study.   Where draft flood  studies  or flood 
risk  management  plans  have  been  adopted  by  Council,  maps  showing  flood  liable 
land will be held in the office of Council (contact Council for further advice). 

Note:  Where  draft  flood  studies  or  flood  risk  management  plans  have  not  been 
adopted by Council for a catchment affected by stormwater flooding, all properties in 
this catchment must be regarded as flood liable and are defined as a flood lot for the 
purposes  of  State  Environmental  Planning  Policy  (Exempt  and  Complying 
Development Codes) 2008. 

Objectives 

The objectives of Part B12 of this DCP are: 

(a)  To  reduce  the  risk  to  human  life  and  damage  to  property  caused  by  flooding 

through controlling development on land affected by potential floods. 

(b)  To  apply  a  “merit–based  approach”  to  all  development  decisions  which  takes 
account  of  social,  economic  and  environmental  as  well  as 
flooding 
considerations  in  accordance  with  the  principles  contained  in  the  NSW 
Floodplain Development Manual (FDM). 

(c)  To  control  development  and  other  activity  within  each  of  the  individual 
floodplains  within  the  City  of  Bankstown  having  regard  to  the  characteristics 
and level of information available for each of the floodplains. 

(d)  To assess applications for development on land that could be flood affected in 
accordance  with  the  principles  included  in  the  FDM,  issued  by  the  State 
Government. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 2–CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING APPLICATIONS 

The criteria for determining applications for proposals potentially affected by flooding 
are  structured  in  recognition  that  different  controls  are  applicable  to  different  land 
uses and levels of potential flood inundation and hazard. 

The procedure to determine what controls apply to proposed development involves: 

(a) 

identifying  the  land  use  category  of  the  development  from  Schedule  2  of  this 
DCP; 

(b)  determine  which  floodplain  and  which  flood  risk  precinct  the  land  is  located 

within (refer to Clause 2.2 and relevant flood risk mapping); and 

(c)  apply the controls outlined in Section 3. 

Section  4 
development in specific circumstances. 

identifies  special  considerations  which  will  apply  only 

to  some 

Section  5  provides  controls  for  fencing  in  the  floodplain  and  Section  6  includes 
details of schedules identified in Section 3. 

2.1  Land use categories 

Council has adopted eight major land use categories which are identified as: 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

Critical uses and facilities 
Sensitive uses and facilities 
Subdivision  
Residential  
Commercial or industrial  
Tourist related development 
Recreation or non–urban uses 
Concessional development 

The specific uses, as defined by the applicable environmental planning instruments, 
which may be included in each category, are listed in Schedule 2. 

2.2  Flood risk precinct 

Based on the different levels of potential flood risk, each of the floodplains within the 
City of Bankstown is divided into three categories of flood risk precinct.  The relevant 
Flood Risk Precincts (FRPs) for each of the floodplains are outlined below. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2.2.1  High flood risk precinct 

High Flood Risk Precinct is the area of land below the 100–year flood that is either 
subject  to  a  high  hydraulic  hazard  or  where  there  are  significant  evacuation 
difficulties. 

Most development should be restricted in this precinct as development in high flood 
risk  precinct  is  associated  with  higher  risk  to  life  and  evacuation  difficulties  during 
the event of flood. In this precinct, there would be a significant risk of flood damages 
without compliance with flood related building and planning controls. 

2.2.2  Medium flood risk precinct 

Medium Flood Risk Precinct is land below the 100–year flood that is not subject to a 
high hydraulic hazard and where there are no significant evacuation difficulties. 

There  would  still  be  a  significant  risk  of  flood  damage  in  this  precinct.  However, 
these  damages  can  be  minimised  by  the  application  of  appropriate  development 
controls. 

2.2.3  Low flood risk precinct 

Low Flood Risk Precinct is defined as all other land within the floodplain (within the 
extent of the probable maximum flood) but not identified within either the High Flood 
Risk or the Medium Flood Risk Precinct. 

The risk of damages due to flood event in low flood risk precinct is low for most of 
the land uses. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 3–CONTROLS 

The development controls have been graded relative to the severity and frequency 
of  potential  floods,  having  regard  to  categories  determined  by  the  relevant 
Floodplain  Risk  Management  Study  and  Plan  or,  if  no  such  study  or  plan  exists, 
council’s  interim  considerations.  The  controls  applicable  to  each  floodplain  are 
included within the planning matrices contained in the following schedules: 

• 

• 

• 

Schedule  3–Georges  River  Floodplain  generally  but  excluding  sections  of 
floodplain referred to separately.  This includes controls applicable to. 

Schedules 4A, 4B and 4C–The Carinya Rd area.  The Carinya Rd area has 
been excluded from the main schedule applying to the Georges River, as it has 
always been considered a special case, as indicated by the fact that this area 
has  been  subject  to  its  own  DCP  (DCP  9D).  As  an  outcome  of  the  Georges 
River  Floodplain  Management  Study,  the  controls  for  this  area  have  been 
reviewed–although  in  general  the  controls  that  were  first  included  in  DCP  9D 
have largely been retained. 

Schedule  5–Catchments  affected  by  Stormwater  Flooding.    This  schedule 
defines  development  controls  for  flood  liable  land  in  catchments  that  are  not 
highlighted  in  Map  1  (i.e.  catchments  affected  by  stormwater  flooding).  Flood 
liable land is identified through: 

(a)  Council's ongoing flood study and flood risk management process. 

(b)  Site  specific  flood  studies,  in  cases  where  a  flood  study  or  flood  risk 

management plan has not been finalised and adopted by Council. 

Where draft flood studies or flood risk management plans have been adopted 
by Council, maps showing flood liable land will be held in the office of Council. 

Note: If a catchment is affected by stormwater flooding and draft flood study or flood 
risk  management  plan  has  not  yet  been  adopted  by  Council,  all  properties  in  that 
catchment must be regarded as being flood liable and are defined as a flood lot for 
the  purposes  of  State  Environmental  Planning  Policy  (Exempt  and  Complying 
Development Codes) 2008. 

3.1  Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To  require  developments  with  high  sensitivity  to  flood  risk  to  be  designed  so 

that they are subject to minimal risk. 

(b)  To allow development with a lower sensitivity to the flood hazard to be located 
within  the  floodplain,  provided  the  risk  of  harm  and  damage  to  property  is 
minimised. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(c)  To minimise the intensification of the High Flood Risk Precinct or floodway, and 

if possible, allow for their conversion to natural waterway corridors. 

(d)  To ensure design  and  siting  controls  required  to  address  the flood  hazard  do 
not result in unreasonable social, economic or environmental impacts upon the 
amenity or ecology of an area. 

(e)  To  minimise  the  risk  to  life  by  ensuring  the  provision  of  reliable  access  from 

areas affected by flooding. 

(f)  To  minimise  the  damage  to  property  (including  motor  vehicles)  arising  from 

flooding. 

(g)  To ensure the proposed development does not expose existing development to 

increased risks associated with flooding. 

3.2  Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

3.2.1  Performance criteria 

(a)  The proposed development should not result in any significant increase in risk 
to human life, or in a significant increase in economic or social costs as a result 
of flooding. 

(b)  The  proposal  should  only  be  permitted  where  effective  warning  time  and 
reliable access is available to an area free of risk from flooding, consistent with 
any relevant Flood Plan or flood evacuation strategy. 

(c)  Development should not significantly increase the potential for damage or risk 
other properties either individually or in combination with the cumulative impact 
of development that is likely to occur in the same floodplain. 

(d)  Motor  vehicles  are  able  to  be  relocated,  undamaged,  to  an  area  with 

substantially less risk from flooding, within effective warning time. 

(e)  Procedures  would  be  in  place,  if  necessary,  (such  as  warning  systems, 
signage or evacuation drills) so that people are aware of the need to evacuate 
and  relocate  motor  vehicles  during  a  flood  and  are  capable  of  identifying  the 
appropriate evacuation route. 

(f)  To  minimise  the  damage  to  property,  including  motor  vehicles  arising  from 

flooding. 

(g)  Development  should  not  result  in  significant  impacts  upon  the  amenity  of  an 
area  by  way  of  unacceptable  overshadowing  of  adjoining  properties,  privacy 
impacts  (e.g.  by  unsympathetic  house–raising)  or  by  being  incompatible  with 
the streetscape or character of the locality. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

3.2.2  Prescriptive controls 

Schedules 3 and 4 outline the controls relevant to each of the floodplains to which 
this Plan applies. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 4–SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS 

When assessing proposals for development or other activity within the area to which 
this Policy applies, Council will take into consideration the following specific matters. 

(a)  Proposals for house raising must demonstrate that the raised structure will not 
be  at  risk  of  failure  from  the  forces  of  floodwaters  and  will  not  result  in 
significant adverse impacts upon the amenity and character of an area. 

(b)  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  where  a  property  is  identified  within  a 

Voluntary Acquisition Scheme area, Council will only consent to: 

(i) 

development  for  minor  works  such  as  small  awnings  over  existing  floor 
balconies or in–ground swimming pools; and 

(ii)  capital  investment  intended  for  the  property  is  not  greater  than  the 

minimum required to provide an acceptable proposal. 

Note: Council will not permit any type of development which would be inconsistent 
with  the  objective  of  not  intensifying  further  development  in  areas  of  high  risk  and 
with Council's commitment to the Voluntary Acquisition Scheme. 

4.1  Kelso Park, East Hills Levee Floodplain 

This section applies only to land protected by the Kelso Park Levee in East Hills as 
shown in Map 2. 

The Kelso Park Levee was constructed for the purpose of protecting the properties 
behind  the  Levee  from  flooding  from  the  Georges  River.  The  levee  provides 
protection for floods at least as high as the 100–year flood. 

However, some of the properties protected by the Levee may still be inundated by 
local  stormwater  flooding,  though  to  a  lesser  degree.  This  would  result  from  the 
escape  of  local  stormwater  being  prevented  by  the  Levee  and  the  closure  of 
floodgates  in  the  Levee  during  flooding  of  the  Georges  River,  or  by  levee  failure 
and/or overtopping in rare events. 

Any approval for the erection or extension of a dwelling or other building on land to 
which this section of the DCP applies shall be accompanied by the following advice: 

“A Levee known as the Kelso Park Levee has been constructed for the purpose of 
protecting  this  property  and  a  large  number  of  other  properties  behind  the  Levee 
from  flooding  from  the  Georges  River.  The  Levee  could  be  overtopped  in  floods 
greater than the 100 year event”. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

4.2  East Hills Floodplain 

This section of the plan applies only to the land at East Hills as shown in Map 3. 

4.2.1  All  new  dwellings,  raised  dwellings,  relocated  dwelling  houses,  major 
additions and dual occupancies shall have direct fail–safe pedestrian access 
to land above the 100–year flood level. 

4.2.2  Notwithstanding 4.2.1 above, the construction of an external staircase to the 
street  boundary  will  be  accepted  as  satisfactory  access  for Nos. 528  to  558 
Henry  Lawson  Drive  for  new  dwellings,  dual  occupancies,  raised  dwellings, 
relocated  dwelling  houses  and  major  additions  provided  the  dwelling  stands 
on  the 5.5m  building  line.  However,  dual  occupancies  will  only  be  permitted 
where  the  proposed  flood  mitigation  works  have  been  completed  and  after 
considering the effectiveness of proposed flood evacuation measures. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

4.3  Carinya Road, Picnic Point 

This  clause  (including  subclauses  4.3.1–4.3.3)  applies  to  land  subject  to  the  high 
and medium flood risk in the Carinya Road area in Picnic Point as shown in Map 4. 

4.3.1  Subdivision and density controls 

Proposed development must comply with the following residential density controls: 

Area 
East of the boatshed 
West of the boatshed 

Maximum residential dwelling density 
1 dwelling/650m2 of site area 
1 dwelling/500m2 of site area 

Other development controls for this area are included in Schedules 4B and 4C.  The 
controls included in Schedule 4A also apply to this area, and to the land subject to a 
low flood risk as well. 

4.3.2  Scenic quality and amenity considerations 

(i)  The  maximum  height  of  buildings  shall  not  exceed  9  metres  to  the  topmost 

point of the structure from the existing ground level below. 

(ii)  The relevant flood risk management related development controls are provided 

in Schedule 4. 

(iii)  Where the proposed buildings are required to be elevated, the building needs 
to  be  designed  to  conform  with  the  scale  and  character  of  existing 
development in the area. 

(iv)  The design of elevated walkways will need to address: privacy, overshadowing 
and  impact  on  the  scenic  quality  of  the  area.    The  length  of  the  walkways 
should  be  minimised  by  locating  dwellings  as  close  as  possible  to  Carinya 
Road. 

4.3.3  Prohibited land uses 

The  following  specific  land  uses  normally  permitted  in  the  residential  zone  are 
prohibited within the Carinya Road area shown on Map 4: 

Child care centres; 
Educational establishments; 
Hospitals; 
Residential flat buildings for aged persons not exceeding two storeys; 
Places of assembly; 
Places of public worship; 
Dual occupancy; 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Multi dwelling housing; and 
• 

Seniors housing. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 5–FENCING 

5.1  Objectives 

The objectives are: 

(a)  To ensure that fencing does not result in the undesirable obstruction of the free 

flow of floodwaters. 

(b)  To ensure that fencing does not become unsafe during floods so as to threaten 

the integrity of structures or the safety of people. 

5.2  Development controls 

The development controls to achieve the objectives are: 

5.2.1  Performance criteria 

(a)  Fencing is to be constructed in a manner which does not significantly increase 

flood damage or risk on surrounding land. 

(b)  Fencing  shall  be  certified  by  a  suitably  qualified  engineer,  that  the  proposed 
fencing is adequately constructed so as to withstand the forces of floodwaters, 
or  collapse  in  a  controlled  manner  to  prevent  the  undesirable  impediment  of 
floodwaters. 

5.2.2  Prescriptive controls 

(a)  All fencing within a High flood risk precinct, and all fencing in other risk precinct 

that obstructs flood flow will require a development application. 

(b)  An  applicant  will  need  to  demonstrate  that  the  fence  (new  or  replacement 
fence)  would  create  no  impediment  to  the  flow  of  floodwaters.    Appropriate 
fences must satisfy the following: 

• 

• 

• 

an  open  collapsible  hinged  fence  structure  or  pool  type  fence,  or  louver 
fencing; 

other  than  a  brick  or  other  masonry  type  fence  (which  will  generally  not 
be permitted); or 

a fence type and siting criteria as prescribed by Council. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 6–SCHEDULES 

Schedule 1–Flood Compatible Materials 

BUILDING 
COMPONENT 

FLOOD COMPATIBLE 
MATERIAL 

BUILDING 
COMPONENT 

Flooring and 
Sub–floor 
Structure 

Doors 

•  concrete slab–on–
ground monolith 
construction 
•  suspension 

reinforced concrete 
slab 

Wall and 
Ceiling 
Linings 

Floor 
Covering 

•  clay tiles 
•  concrete, precast or 

in situ 

•  concrete tiles 
•  epoxy, formed–in–

place 

•  mastic flooring, 

• 

formed–in–place 
rubber sheets or 
tiles with chemical-
set adhesives 
•  silicone floors 

formed–in–place 
•  vinyl sheets or tiles 

with chemical–set 
adhesive 

•  ceramic tiles, fixed 
with mortar or 
chemical–set 
adhesive 

•  asphalt tiles, fixed 

with water resistant 
adhesive 

FLOOD 
COMPATIBLE 
MATERIAL 
•  solid panel with 
water proof 
adhesives 
flush door with 
marine ply filled with 
closed cell foam 

• 

•  painted metal 
construction 
•  aluminium or 

galvanised steel 
frame 
• 
fibro–cement board 
•  brick, face or glazed 
•  clay tile glazed in 
waterproof mortar 

•  concrete 
•  concrete block 
•  steel with waterproof 

applications 

•  stone, natural solid or 
veneer, waterproof 
grout 

•  glass blocks 
•  glass 
•  plastic sheeting or 

wall with waterproof 
adhesive 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

BUILDING 
COMPONENT 

FLOOD COMPATIBLE 
MATERIAL 

BUILDING 
COMPONENT 

Wall 
Structure 

•  solid brickwork, 
blockwork, 
reinforced, concrete 
or mass concrete 

Insulation 

Windows 

• 

reinforced concrete 
construction 
•  galvanised metal 
construction 

Nails, Bolts, 
Hinges and 
Fittings 

Roofing 
Structure (for 
Situations 
Where the 
Relevant 
Flood Level 
is Above the 
Ceiling) 

FLOOD 
COMPATIBLE 
MATERIAL 
• 

foam (closed cell 
types) 

•  aluminium frame with 
stainless steel rollers 
or similar corrosion 
and water resistant 
material 

•  brass, nylon or 
stainless steel 

•  removable pin hinges 
•  hot dipped 

galvanised steer wire 
nails or similar 

Electrical and Mechanical 
Equipment 

Heating and Air Conditioning 
Systems 

For dwellings constructed on land to 
which this Policy applies, the electrical 
and mechanical materials, equipment 
and installation should conform to the 
following requirements. 

Main power supply 

Subject to the approval of the relevant 
authority the incoming main 
commercial power service equipment, 
including all metering equipment, shall 
be located above the relevant flood 
level.  Means shall be available to 
easily disconnect the dwelling from the 
main power supply. 

Heating and air conditioning systems 
should, to the maximum extent 
possible, be installed in areas and 
spaces of the house above the 
relevant flood level.  When this is not 
feasible every precaution should be 
taken to minimise the damage caused 
by submersion according to the 
following guidelines. 
Fuel 

Heating systems using gas or oil as a 
fuel should have a manually operated 
valve located in the fuel supply line to 
enable fuel cut–off. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Wiring 

Installation 

The heating equipment and fuel 
storage tanks should be mounted on 
and securely anchored to a foundation 
pad of sufficient mass to overcome 
buoyancy and prevent movement that 
could damage the fuel supply line.  All 
storage tanks should be vented to an 
elevation of 600 millimetres above the 
relevant flood level. 

Ducting 

All ductwork located below the 
relevant flood level should be provided 
with openings for drainage and 
cleaning.  Self–draining may be 
achieved by constructing the ductwork 
on a suitable grade.  Where ductwork 
must pass through a watertight wall or 
floor below the relevant flood level, the 
ductwork should be protected by a 
closure assembly operated from 
above relevant flood level. 

All wiring, power outlets, switches and 
the like should, to the maximum extent 
possible, be located above the 
relevant flood level.  All electrical 
wiring installed below the relevant 
flood level should be suitable for 
continuous submergence in water and 
should contain no fibrous components. 
Earth core linkage systems (or safety 
switches) are to be installed. Only 
submersible–type splices should be 
used below the relevant flood level.  
All conduits located below the relevant 
designated flood level should be so 
installed that they will be self–draining 
if subjected to flooding. 
Equipment 

All equipment installed below or 
partially below the relevant flood level 
should be capable of disconnection by 
a single plug and socket assembly. 

Reconnection 

Should any electrical device and/or 
part of the wiring be flooded it should 
be thoroughly cleaned or replaced and 
checked by an approved electrical 
contractor before reconnection. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Schedule 2–Land Use Categories 

Subdivision 

Subdivision of land 
which involves the 
creation of new 
allotments, with 
potential for further 
development. 

Critical Uses and 
Facilities 
Community facilities 
which may provide 
an important 
contribution to the 
notification or 
evacuation of the 
community during 
flood events; 
hospitals; and 
nursing homes. 

Sensitive Uses and 
Facilities 
Telecommunications 
facilities; offensive 
storage 
establishments; 
seniors housing; 
correctional centres; 
liquid fuel depots; 
public utility 
undertakings 
(including generating 
works) which are 
essential to 
evacuation during 
periods of flood or if 
affected would 
unreasonably affect 
the ability of the 
community to return 
to normal activities 
after flood events; 
and waste disposal 
facilities. 

Commercial or 
Industrial 
Amusement centres; 
sex services 
premises; bulky 
goods premises; 
business premises; 
car parks; child care 
centres; 
neighbourhood 
shops; depots; 
recreation facilities 
(major), 
entertainment 
facilities; heliports; 
highway service 
centre; pubs; 
industries; junkyards 
light industries; 
material recycling 
yards; medical 
centres; hotel or 
motel 
accommodation; 
vehicle sales or hire 
premises; offensive 
industries; offensive 
storage 

Recreation or Non–
Urban Uses 
Agriculture; animal 
boarding or training 
establishments; 
boatsheds; dams; 
extractive industries; 
helipads; jetties; 
marinas; mines; 
recreation areas and 
minor ancillary 
structures (e.g. toilet 
blocks or 
kiosks/cafes); 
recreation facilities 
(indoor and outdoor) 
other than those 
categorised under 
“commercial or 
industrial”; plant 
nurseries; 
sanctuaries; 
swimming pools; and 
turf farming. 
Concessional 
Development 
Residential 
development: 

(i)  An addition or 
alteration to an 
existing dwelling 
of not more than 
50m2 to the 
habitable floor 
area which 
existed at the 
date of 
commencement 
of this Plan; 
(ii)  The construction 
of an outbuilding 
with a maximum 
floor area of 
30m2; or 

(iii)  Rebuilt 

dwellings which 
substantially 
reduce flood risk 
having regard to 
property 
damage and 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

Tourist Related 
Development 
Camp sites or 
caravan parks – 
short–term sites (1) 
only. 

Residential 

Bed and breakfast 
establishments; 
boarding houses; 
camp sites or 
caravan parks – 
long–term sites (2) 
only; community 
facilities (other than 
sensitive uses and 
facilities); dual 
occupancies; 
dwellings; dwelling 
houses; educational 
establishments; 
family day care 
centres; secondary 
dwellings; health 
consulting rooms; 
home based child 
care centres; home 
businesses; home 
occupations; group 
homes; residential 
flat buildings; 
attached dwellings; 
serviced apartments; 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

establishments; 
office premises; 
passenger transport 
terminals; places of 
public worship; 
public administration 
buildings; recreation 
facilities (indoor); 
registered clubs; 
Research 
establishment; 
research stations; 
restaurants; 
restricted premises; 
roadside stalls; 
freight transport 
terminals; service 
stations; shops;  
transport depots; 
vehicle body repair 
workshops; vehicle 
repair stations; 
veterinary hospitals; 
and 
warehouse or 
distribution centres. 

utility installations 
(other than critical 
utilities); and multi 
dwelling housing. 

personal safety; 
or 

(iv)  A change of use 

which does not 
increase flood 
risk having 
regard to 
property 
damage and 
personal safety. 

Other developments: 

(i)  An addition to 
existing 
premises of not 
more than 10% 
of the floor area 
which existed at 
the date of 
commencement 
of this DCP;  
(ii)  Rebuilding of a 

development 
which 
substantially 
reduces the 
extent of flood 
effects to the 
existing 
development;  

(i)  A change of use 

which does not 
increase flood 
risk having 
regard to 
property 
damage and 
personal safety; 
or 

(iv)  Subdivision 

which does not 
involve the 
creation of new 
allotments with 
potential for 
further 
development. 

(1)  As  defined  by  the  Local  Government  (Caravan  Park  and  Camping  Grounds) 

Transitional Regulation 1993. 

(2)  As  defined  by  the  Local  Government  (Caravan  Park  and  Camping  Grounds) 

Transitional Regulation 1993. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SCHEDULE 3–GEORGES RIVER FLOODPLAIN 

Low Flood Risk 

Flood Risk Precincts (FRP's) 
Medium Flood Risk 

High Flood Risk 

s
e
s
U

l
a
c
i
t
i
r

C

s
e
i
t
i
l
i
c
a
F
&

e
v
i
t
i
s
n
e
S

&

s
e
s
U

s
e
i
t
i
l
i
c
a
F

n
o
i
s
i
v
i
d
b
u
S

l
a
i
t
n
e
d
i
s
e
R

l
a
i
c
r
e
m
m
o
C

l
a
i
r
t
s
u
d
n
I

t
s
i
r
u
o
T

&

d
e
t
a
l
e
R

t
n
e
m
p
o
l
e
v
e
D

&
n
o
i
t
a
e
r
c
e
R

n
a
b
r
U
-
n
o
N

l
a
n
o
i
s
s
e
c
n
o
C

t
n
e
m
p
o
l
e
v
e
D

s
e
s
U

l
a
c
i
t
i
r

C

e
v
i
t
i
s
n
e
S

s
e
i
t
i
l
i
c
a
F
&

&

s
e
s
U

s
e
i
t
i
l
i
c
a
F

n
o
i
s
i
v
i
d
b
u
S

l
a
i
t
n
e
d
i
s
e
R

l
a
i
c
r
e
m
m
o
C

l
a
i
r
t
s
u
d
n
I

t
s
i
r
u
o
T

&

d
e
t
a
l
e
R

t
n
e
m
p
o
l
e
v
e
D

&
n
o
i
t
a
e
r
c
e
R

n
a
b
r
U
-
n
o
N

l
a
n
o
i
s
s
e
c
n
o
C

t
n
e
m
p
o
l
e
v
e
D

s
e
s
U

l
a
c
i
t
i
r

C

e
v
i
t
i
s
n
e
S

s
e
i
t
i
l
i
c
a
F
&

&

s
e
s
U

s
e
i
t
i
l
i
c
a
F

n
o
i
s
i
v
i
d
b
u
S

l
a
i
t
n
e
d
i
s
e
R

l
a
i
c
r
e
m
m
o
C

l
a
i
r
t
s
u
d
n
I

t
s
i
r
u
o
T

&

d
e
t
a
l
e
R

t
n
e
m
p
o
l
e
v
e
D

&
n
o
i
t
a
e
r
c
e
R

n
a
b
r
U
-
n
o
N

l
a
n
o
i
s
s
e
c
n
o
C

t
n
e
m
p
o
l
e
v
e
D

3 
2 
3 
2 
1,3,5,6,7 
2,3,4 
4,5 

3 

2 

3 
9 
7 

2 

3 
9 
7 

2 

1,6 

4,7 

3 
9 
7 

3 
9 
7 

3 
9 
7 

1 

6 
1 

2,6,7 
1 
1 
2 

5,6,7 
1 
1 
2 

2,6,7 
1 
1 
2 

1,6 
1 
1 
2 

4,7 
1 
1 
2 

1,3,5,6,7 1,3,5,6,7 1,3,5,6,7 2,4,6,7  6,7,8 
4,3 
2,3 
2,3,5  2,3,5 

1,3 
2,3,5 

2,3 
2,3,5 

2,3 

1,6 
1 
1 
1 
2,4,6,7 
4,3 
2,3,5 

4,7 
1 
1 
1 
6,7,8 
2,3 
2,3,5 

Planning Consideration 
Floor Level 
Building Components 
Structural Soundness 
Flood Effects 
Car Parking & Driveway Access 
Evacuation 
Management & Design 

General Notes and Controls 

COLOUR LEGEND: 

Not Relevant 

Potentially Unsuitable Land Use 

1 

2 

3 

3 

4 

5 

6 

Freeboard equals an additional height of 500mm.  
The relevant environmental planning instruments (generally the Local Environmental Plan) identify development permissible with consent in various zones in the LGA. Notwithstanding, constraints 
specific to individual sites may preclude Council granting consent for certain forms of development on all or part of a site. This matrix identifies where certain development types will be considered 
"potentially unsuitable" due to flood risks. 
Council can consider a DA for a "potentially unsuitable use" that clearly complies with the objectives of this DCP and with the performance criteria. In this case, prescriptive controls will be applied on a 
DA specific.   

Filling of the site, where acceptable to Council, may change the FRP considered to determine the controls applied in the circumstances of individual applications. 
Refer to Section 5 of this DCP for planning considerations for proposals involving only the erection of a fence. Any fencing that forms part of a proposed development is subject to the relevant flood 
effects and structural soundness planning considerations of the applicable land use category.  
Terms in italics are defined in DCP Part C and Schedule 2 specifies development types included in each land use category. These development types are generally as defined within Environmental 
Planning Instruments applying to the LGA. 
From time to time, Council may adopt mapping showing the Boundary of Significant Flow and/or Flood Storage Areas for this floodplain.  Refer to Council to find out if these areas have been defined 
and mapped for this floodplain. 

Floor Level 

1  All floor levels to be no lower than the 20-year flood unless justified by site-specific assessment. 
2  Habitable floor levels to be no lower than the 100-year flood level plus freeboard. 
3  Habitable floor levels to be no lower than the PMF level.   Non-habitable floor levels to be no lower than the PMF level unless justified by a site-specific assessment. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

4 

5 

Floor levels to be no lower than the design floor level. Where this is not practical due to compatibility with the height of adjacent buildings, or compatibility with the floor level of existing buildings, or the 
need for access for persons with disabilities, a lower floor level may be considered. In these circumstances, the floor level is to be a+B46s high as practical and when undertaking alterations and additions, 
no lower than the existing floor level.  
The level of habitable floor areas to be equal to or greater than the 100-year flood level plus freeboard.  If this level is impractical for a development in a Business zone, the floor level should be as high 
as possible. 

6  Non-habitable floor levels to be no lower than the 20-year flood unless justified by site-specific assessment. 

7 

A restriction is to be placed on the title of the land, pursuant to S.88B of the Conveyancing Act, where the lowest habitable floor area is elevated more than 1.5m above finished ground level, confirming 
that the undercroft area is not to be enclosed. The use of roller shutters or similar measures (such as hit and miss brickwork)  to enclose this area is however  permissible.  

Building Components & Method 

1  All structures to have flood compatible building components below the 100-year flood level plus freeboard. 
2  All structures to have flood compatible building components below the PMF level. 

Structural Soundness 

1  Engineer's report to certify that the structure can withstand the forces of floodwater, debris and buoyancy up to and including a 100-year flood plus freeboard. 
2  Applicant to demonstrate that the structure can withstand the forces of floodwater, debris and buoyancy up to and including a 100-year flood plus freeboard.  An engineer's report may be required. 
3  Applicant to demonstrate that any structure can withstand the forces of floodwater, debris and buoyancy up to and including a PMF. An engineer’s report may be required. 

Flood Effects 

1 

2 

3 

Engineer's report required to certify that the development will not increase flood effects elsewhere, having regard to: (i) loss of flood storage; (ii) changes in flood levels and velocities caused by 
alterations to the flood  conveyance; and (iii) the cumulative impacts of multiple developments in the floodplain. 
The flood impact of the development to be considered to ensure that the development will not increase flood effects elsewhere, having regard to: (i) loss of flood storage; (ii) changes in flood levels and 
velocities caused by alterations to the flood conveyance and (iii) the cumulative impacts of multiple potential developments in the floodplain. An engineer’s report may be required. 
Flood impacts to be considered in the case of major development if Council advise that the development may generate flood impact, such as significant loss of storage or conveyance. Any assessment may 
also be asked to demonstrate that the proposed development is structurally sound. 

Note:  (1) If a Boundary of Significant Flow has been defined for this floodplain, any development inside this area will normally be unacceptable as it will reduce flood conveyance and increase flood effects 
elsewhere. (2) If a Flood Storage Area has been defined for this floodplain any filling of the floodplain inside this area  (except where this occurs by compensatory evacuation), will normally be unacceptable as it 
will reduce the volume of flood storage available on the floodplain and increase flood effects elsewhere. (3) Even where a boundary of significant flow and or a storage area have been identified, developments 
outside these areas may still increase flood impacts elsewhere and therefore be unacceptable.   
Car Parking and Driveway Access 

1 

The minimum surface level of open car parking spaces or carports shall be as high as practical, but no lower than the 20-year flood or the level of the crest of the road at the location where the site has 
access.   In the case of garages, the minimum surface level shall be as high as practical, but no lower than the 20-year flood.   

2  The minimum surface level of open car parking spaces, carports or garages, shall be as high as practical. 
3  Garages capable of accommodating more than 3 motor vehicles on land zoned for urban purposes, or enclosed car parking, must be protected from inundation by floods up to the 100-year flood. 
4  The driveway providing access between the road and parking space shall be as high as practical and generally rising in the egress direction. 

5 

The level of the driveway providing access between the road and parking space shall be no lower than 0.3m below the 100-year flood or such that the depth of inundation during a 100-year flood is not 
greater than either the depth at the road or the depth at the car parking space. A lesser standard may be accepted for single detached dwelling houses where it can be demonstrated that risk to human life 
would not be compromised. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

6 

Enclosed car parking and car parking areas accommodating more than 3 vehicles (other than on Rural zoned land), with a floor level below the 20-year flood or more than 0.8m below the 100-year flood 
level, shall have adequate warning systems, signage and exits. 

7  Restraints or vehicle barriers to be provided to prevent floating vehicles leaving a site during a 100-year flood. 

8 

9 

Driveway and parking space levels to be no lower than the design ground/floor levels. Where this is not practical, a lower level may be considered.  In these circumstances, the level is to be as high as 
practical, and, when undertaking alterations or additions, no lower than the existing level.  
Flood related parking and access requirements to be advised by Council if necessary. Contact Council for advice as early as possible. 

Note:  (1) A flood depth of 0.3m is sufficient to cause a typical vehicle to float.     (2) Enclosed car parking is defined in DCP Part C and typically refers to carparks in basements. 
Evacuation 

1  Reliable access for pedestrians or vehicles required during a 100-year flood. 
2  Adequate flood warning is available to allow safe and orderly evacuation without increased reliance upon the SES or other authorised emergency services personnel. 
3 

The development is to be consistent with any relevant flood evacuation strategy, Flood Plan adopted by Council or similar plan. 
The evacuation requirements of the development are to be considered.  A report from a suitably qualified and experienced person will be required if circumstances are possible where the evacuation of 
persons might not be achieved within the effective warning time. 

4 

5  Reliable access for pedestrians or vehicles required to a publicly accessible location above the PMF. 
6  Applicant to demonstrate that evacuation in accordance with the requirements of this DCP is available for the potential development flowing from the subdivision proposal. 
7  Evacuation requirements to be advised by Council if necessary. Contact Council for advice as early as possible. 

Management and Design 

Site Emergency Response Flood Plan required where floor levels are below the design floor level, (except for single dwelling-houses).  

1  Applicant to demonstrate that potential development as a consequence of a subdivision proposal can be undertaken in accordance with this DCP. 
2 
3  Applicant to demonstrate that area is available to store goods above the 100-year flood level plus freeboard. 
4  Applicant to demonstrate that area is available to store goods above the PMF level. 
5  No storage of materials below the design floor level which may cause pollution or be potentially hazardous during any flood. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SCHEDULE 4A–CARINYA ROAD, PICNIC POINT FLOODPLAIN

Planning and Development Controls

Low Flood Risk

Flood Risk Precincts (FRP's)

Medium
Flood

& High
Risk

s
e
i
t
i
l
i

c
a
F
&
s
e
s
U
e
v
i
t
i
s
n
e
S

Planning 
Consideration
Floor Level
Building Components
Structural Soundness
Flood Affectation
Evacuation
Management & Design

l

)
s
o
o
p

i

g
n
m
m
w
s

i

,
s
d
e
h
s

.
g
e

s
g
n
d

i

l
i

u
b
t
u
o
(

l

a
i
t
n
e
d
s
e
R

i

n
e
d
r
a
g

,
s
t
r
o
p
r
a
c

,
s
e
g
a
r
a
G

i

)
g
n
s
a
r

i

e
s
u
o
h
(

l

a
i
t
n
e
d
s
e
R

i

)
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
d

l

l

i

a
n
o
s
s
e
c
n
o
c

&
s
n
o
i
t
a
r
e
t
l
a
(

l

a
i
t
n
e
d
s
e
R

i

n
a
h
t

r
e
h
t
o

s
n
o
i
t
i
d
d
a

2
1

2
1,4

n
a
b
r
U
-
n
o
N
&
n
o
i
t
a
e
r
c
e
R

t
l
i

u
b
e
r

&
w
e
n

i

g
n
d
u
c
n

l

i

2,5
1
2

)
s
g
n

i
l
l

e
w
d

2,3
1,2,4

s
e
s
U
&
s
e
i
t
i
l
i
t

U

l

a
c
i
t
i
r

C

l

a
r
e
n
e
G

(

i

i

n
o
s
v
d
b
u
S

i

l

a
i
t
n
e
d
s
e
R

i

3
2
3

2
3,5
4,5

6

2
1,2 *
1,7

t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D

l

l

i

a
n
o
s
s
e
c
n
o
C

s
e
i
t
i
l
i

c
a
F
&
s
e
s
U
e
v
i
t
i
s
n
e
S

s
e
s
U
&
s
e
i
t
i
l
i
t

U

l

a
c
i
t
i
r

C

l

a
r
e
n
e
G

(

i

i

n
o
s
v
d
b
u
S

i

l

a
i
t
n
e
d
s
e
R

i

2,4
1

6

1
1,2 *
1,7

)
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
d

l

l

i

a
n
o
s
s
e
c
n
o
c

t
l
i

u
b
e
r

&
w
e
n

i

g
n
d
u
c
n

l

i

2,5
1
1

)
s
g
n

i
l
l

e
w
d

&
s
n
o
i
t
a
r
e
t
l
a
(

l

a
i
t
n
e
d
s
e
R

i

n
a
h
t

r
e
h
t
o

s
n
o
i
t
i
d
d
a

2
1
1

i

)
g
n
s
a
r

i

e
s
u
o
h
(

l

a
i
t
n
e
d
s
e
R

i

2
1
1

2,3
1,2,4

1,3
1#,4

2,3,5,6,7,8 2,5,6,7,8

1,3
1,4
2,5,6,8

.
g
e

s
g
n
d

i

l
i

u
b
t
u
o
(

l

a
i
t
n
e
d
s
e
R

i

n
e
d
r
a
g

,
s
t
r
o
p
r
a
c

,
s
e
g
a
r
a
G

l

)
s
o
o
p

i

g
n
m
m
w
s

i

,
s
d
e
h
s

5
1
1#,2

1,3

5,6

n
a
b
r
U
-
n
o
N
&
n
o
i
t
a
e
r
c
e
R

1
1
2

2
3,4
2,3,5

t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D

l

l

i

a
n
o
s
s
e
c
n
o
C

2 or 4
1
1#,2

1,3

3,5,8

Not Relevant

Potentially Unsuitable Land Use

Freeboard  equals an additional height of 500mm

*
#

Refer to 'Management & Design'  planning 
consideration for subdivision

Desirable but not mandatory. Will be considered 
by Council on the merits of each application

Note: 1.Filling of the site, where acceptable to Council, may change the FRP considered to determine the 
controls applied in the circumstances of individual applications.
2. Terms in italics are defined in the glossary of this plan and Schedule 2 specifies development types 
included in each land use category. These development types are generally as defined within 
Environmental Planning Instruments applying to the local go
3. Alterations & additions (except concessional development) are not permitted for existing dwellings which 
have habitable floor areas  below the 100 year flood  level plus 0.5m freeboard .

4. The relevant environmental planning instruments (generally the Local Environmental Plan) identify 
development permissible with consent in various zones in the LGA. Notwithstanding, constraints specific to 
individual sites may preclude Council granting 

Floor Level
1
2
3

All Floor Levels to be equal to or greater than the 20 year flood  level plus freeboard  unless justified by site specific assessment
Habitable floor  levels to be equal to or greater than the 100 year flood  level plus freeboard
All Floor Levels to be equal to or greater than the PMF flood  level plus freeboard

4

5

6

Floor levels to be as close to the design floor level  as practical & no lower than the existing floor level when undertaking alterations or additions
On allotments west of the boat shed with vehicle access to Carinya Road, which have new or additional dwellings constructed after the date of commencement of this Plan, 
garages/carports/carspaces/driveways to have ground/floor levels equal to or greater t
Restrictions to be placed on title advising of minimum floor levels required relative to flood level.

Building Components & Method
1
2

All structures to have flood compatible building components  below or at the 100 year flood  level plus freeboard

All structures to have flood compatible building components  below or at the PMF  level plus freeboard

Structural Soundness
1
2
3

Engineers report to certify that any structure can withstand the forces of floodwater, debris & buoyancy up to & including a 100 year flood  plus freeboard
Applicant to demonstrate that any structure can withstand the forces of floodwater, debris & buoyancy up to & including a 100 year flood  plus freeboard
Applicant to demonstrate that any structure can withstand the forces of floodwater, debris & buoyancy up to & including a PMF flood  plus freeboard

Flood Effects

Engineers report required to certify that the development will not increase flood  effects elsewhere, if proposed filling covers more than 200sq.m and extends more than 25m from the Carinya Road 
frontage.

The impact of the development on flooding elsewhere to be considered

Limited filling will be considered for new dwellings in the area between new dwellings/garages and Carinya Road

1

2

3

Note: When assessing flood  effects the following must be considered:
1. Loss of storage area in the floodplain
2. Changes in flood  levels & velocities caused by alteration of conveyance of flood  waters

Evacuation

1

2

3

4

Reliable and failsafe access  for pedestrians required at or above the 100 year flood  level, and not more than 0.5m below the highest floor level. This access is to be adjacent the side boundary. 
Granting a R.O.W. to the adjoining owner is encouraged. In t
Reliable and failsafe access  for vehicles (eg. garage, carport, driveway or carsoace) required at or above the 100 year flood  level for allotments with frontage to Carinya Road and west of the boat 
shed, which have new or additional dwellings constructed 

Reliable access  for pedestrians and vehicles required during a PMF flood

The development is to be consistent with any relevant flood evacuation strategy  or similar plan

Management and Design
1
2
3
4
5

Applicant to demonstrate that potential development as a consequence of a subdivision proposal can be undertaken in accordance with this Plan
Site Emergency Response Flood plan  required.
Applicant to demonstrate that area is available to store goods above the 100 year flood  level plus freeboard
Applicant to demonstrate that area is available to store goods above the PMF  level plus freeboard
No external storage of materials below the 100 year flood  level plus freeboard,  which may cause pollution or be potentially hazardous during a flood

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SCHEDULE 4B–CARINYA ROAD, PICNIC POINT FLOODPLAIN: 
Compilation Of Development Controls For Residential Development 
Type of Development 
1.  Additions to an existing dwelling whose floor level is 
already raised at least 0.5m above the 100 year flood 
level 

Requirements 
•  Habitable  floor  area  extensions  permitted 
at or above 100- year flood level plus 0.5m. 

•  Non-habitable 

extensions 
permitted  below  100-  year  flood  level  plus 
0.5m. 

area 

floor 

•  Outbuildings  (garages,  carports,  sheds) 
permitted  below  the  100-  year  flood  level, 
except  for  garages,  driveways,  carports, 
etc.  on  allotments  west  of  the  boat  shed, 
with  frontage  to  Carinya  Road.  Refer  to 
Section below. 

•  Failsafe  pedestrian  access  (walkways  and 
stairs) encouraged but not mandatory. 

•  Failsafe  vehicular  access  (driveways  and 
car  space)  generally  encouraged  but  not 
mandatory.  However,  new  or  improved 
garages,  carports,  driveways,  car  spaces, 
etc.  on  allotments  west  of  the  boat  shed 
and  with  frontage  to  Carinya  Road,  must 
have  ground/floor  levels  at  or  above  the 
100-year flood level. 

•  Construction  methods 

for  non-habitable 
areas  used  below  the  100-year  flood  level 
plus  0.5m  must  preclude  the  area  from 
being  converted  into  a  habitable  room. 
Acceptable  methods  include  single  brick 
walls  with  roller  shutter  doors  at  opposite 
sides,  lattice  walling  and  the  like.  These 
construction  methods  will  also  assist  in 
reducing  damage  during  floods  and  will 
facilitate cleaning after a flood event. 

•  Construction materials used below the 100-
year  flood  level  plus  0.5m  must  comply 
with Schedule 3. 

•  Applications must include a certificate from 
a  practising  Structural  Engineer  verifying 
that the structure can withstand the force of 
flood  waters  (from  debris  and  buoyancy) 
from  a  flood  up  to  1m  above  the  100-year 
level. 

•  S.149  Certificates  to  notify  affectation  by 

the 100-year flood. 

•  No  external  storage  of  materials  (which 
may be hazardous during floods) below the 
100- year flood level plus 0.5m. 

•  Allotment  stormwater  drainage 

designed 
adjoining properties. 

to  avoid  adverse 

to  be 
impact  on 

Note: In the event of inconsistencies between Schedule 4A and Schedule 4B, 
Schedule 4A applies. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SCHEDULE 4B – CARINYA ROAD, PICNIC POINT FLOODPLAIN:  
Compilation Of Development Controls For Residential Development 
Type of Development 
2.  Additions to an existing dwelling NOT 
already raised at least 0.5m above the 
100-year  flood  level,  including  house 
raising 

Requirements 
ADDITIONS  ARE  NOT  PERMITTED,  EXCEPT  FOR  MINOR 
ADDITIONS AND HOUSE RAISING 

•  Desirably, habitable floor levels to be equal to or above 
the  100  year  flood  level  plus  0.5m.  The  floor  level  of 
minor  additions  are  permitted below  this  level  (but not 
below the existing floor level). 

•  Non-habitable  floor  area  extensions  are  permitted 

below the 100-year flood level plus 0.5m. 

•  Outbuildings  (garages,  carports,  sheds)  permitted 
below  the  100-year  flood  level,  except  for  garages, 
driveways, carports, etc. on allotments west of the boat 
shed,  with  frontage  to  Carinya  Road.  Refer  Section 
below. 

•  Failsafe  pedestrian  access  (walkways  and  stairs)  is 
required  for  house  raising.  For  minor  additions,  such 
access is encouraged but is not mandatory. 

•  Failsafe  vehicular  access  (driveways  and  car  space) 

generally encouraged but not mandatory. 

•  Construction  methods  for  non-habitable  areas  used 
below the 100-year flood level plus 0.5m must preclude 
the  area  from  being  converted  into  a  habitable  room. 
Acceptable  methods  include  single  brick  walls  with 
roller  shutter  doors  at  opposite  sides,  lattice  walling 
and  the  like.  These  construction  methods  will  also 
assist  in  reducing  damage  during  floods  and  will 
facilitate cleaning after a flood event. 

•  Construction  materials  used  below  the  100-year  flood 

level must comply with Schedule 3. 

•  Applications must include a certificate from a practising 
Structural  Engineer  verifying  that  the  structure  can 
withstand  the  force  of  flood  waters  (from  debris  and 
buoyancy)  from  a  flood  up  to  1m  above  the  100-year 
level. 

•  S.149  Certificates  to  notify  affectation  by  100-year 

flood.  

•  No  external  storage  of  materials  (which  may  be 
hazardous  during  floods)  below  100  year  flood  level 
plus 0.5m. 

•  Allotment stormwater drainage to be designed to avoid 

adverse impact on adjoining properties. 

Note:  In  the  event  of  inconsistencies  between  Schedule  4A  above  and 
Schedule 4B, Schedule 4A applies. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

26 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SCHEDULE 4B – CARINYA ROAD, PICNIC POINT FLOODPLAIN:  
Compilation Of Development Controls For Residential Development 
Type of Development 
3.  Rebuilt dwellings 

Requirements 
•  Habitable  floor  levels  to be  equal  to  or  above  the  100 

year flood level plus 0.5m. 

•  Non-habitable  floor  area  extensions  are  permitted 

below the 100-year flood level plus 0.5m. 

•  Outbuildings  (garages,  carports,  sheds)  permitted 
below  the  100-year  flood  level,  except  for  garages, 
driveways, carports, etc on allotments west of the boat 
shed,  with  frontage  to  Carinya  Road.  Refer  to  section 
below. 

•  Failsafe  pedestrian  access  (walkways  and  stairs)  is 

required. 

•  Failsafe 

vehicular 

(garages, 

carports, 
access 
driveways,  car  spaces,  etc)  is  required  for  allotments 
west  of  the  boat  shed  and  with  frontage  to  Carinya 
Road,  and  must  have  ground/floor  levels  at  or  above 
the  100-year  flood  level.  On  other  allotments,  such 
access is encouraged but is not mandatory. 

•  Construction  methods  for  non-habitable  areas  used 
below the 100-year flood level plus 0.5m must preclude 
the  area  from  being  converted  into  a  habitable  room. 
Acceptable  methods  include  single  brick  walls  with 
roller  shutter  doors  at  opposite  sides,  lattice  walling 
and  the  like.  These  construction  methods  will  also 
assist  in  reducing  damage  during  floods  and  will 
facilitate cleaning after a flood event. 

•  Construction  materials  used  below  the  100-year  flood 

level plus 0.5m must comply with Schedule 3. 

•  Applications must include a certificate from a practising 
Structural  Engineer  verifying  that  the  structure  can 
withstand  the  force  of  flood  waters  (from  debris  and 
buoyancy)  from  a  flood  up  to  1m  above  the  100-year 
level. 

•  S.149  Certificates  to  notify  affectation  by  100-year 

flood. 

•  No  external  storage  of  materials  (which  may  be 
hazardous  during  floods)  below  100-year  flood  level 
plus 0.5m. 

•  Allotment stormwater drainage to be designed to avoid 

adverse impact on adjoining properties. 

•  Consideration  should  be  given 

locating  new 
dwellings close to Carinya Road to minimise the impact 
of walkways and filling. 

to 

Note: In the event of inconsistencies between Schedule 4A and Schedule 4B, 
Schedule 4A applies. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Schedule 4B – CARINYA ROAD, PICNIC POINT FLOODPLAIN:  
Compilation Of Development Controls For Residential Development 
Type of Development 
4.  Additional dwellings 

Requirements 
•  Habitable  floor  levels  to  be  equal  or 
above  the  100-year  flood  level  plus 
0.5m. 

•  Non-habitable 

are 
floor 
permitted  below  the  100-year  flood 
level plus 0.5m. 

areas 

•  Outbuildings 

(garages, 

level,  except 

carports, 
sheds)  permitted  below  the  100-year 
flood 
for  garages, 
driveways, carports, etc on allotments 
west of the boat shed, with frontage to 
Carinya Road. See Section below. 

•  Failsafe pedestrian access (walkways 

and stairs) is required. 

•  Failsafe  vehicular  access  (garages, 
carports,  driveways,  car  spaces,  etc) 
is  required  for  allotments  west  of  the 
to 
boat  shed  and  with 
Carinya  Road,  and  must  have 
ground/floor  levels  at  or  above  the 
level.  On  other 
100-year 
allotments, 
is 
access 
encouraged but is not mandatory. 

frontage 

flood 

such 

•  Construction  methods 

for 

flood 

the  area 
into  a  habitable 

non-
habitable  areas  used  below  the  100-
level  plus  0.5m  must 
year 
from  being 
preclude 
converted 
room. 
Acceptable  methods  include  single 
brick walls with roller shutter doors at 
opposite sides, lattice walling and the 
like.  These  construction  methods  will 
also assist in reducing damage during 
floods and will facilitate cleaning after 
a flood event. 

•  Construction materials used below the 
100-year  flood  level  plus  0.5m  must 
comply with Schedule 3. 

that 

•  Applications must include a certificate 
from  a  practising  Structural  Engineer 
verifying 
the  structure  can 
withstand  the  force  of  flood  waters 
(from  debris  and  buoyancy)  from  a 
flood  up  to  1m  above  the  100-year 
level. 

•  S.149 Certificates to notify affectation 

by 100-year flood. 

•  No  external  storage  of  materials 
(which  may  be  hazardous  during 
floods)  below  100-year  flood  level 
plus 0.5m. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Schedule 4B – CARINYA ROAD, PICNIC POINT FLOODPLAIN:  
Compilation Of Development Controls For Residential Development 
Type of Development 
4. Additional dwellings (cont) 

Requirements 
•  Allotment  stormwater  drainage  to  be 
designed  to  avoid  adverse  impact  on 
adjoining properties. 

• 

Limited filling will be considered in the 
area  between  new  dwellings/garages 
and Carinya Road subject to – 

• 

• 
• 

• 

from 

failsafe  pedestrian 

It  providing 
and/or vehicular access. 
A maximum filled area of 200m2. 
Filling  not  to  extend  more  than 
25m 
the  Carinya  Road 
frontage. 
Any  additional  filling  will  only  be 
flood  effects 
considered 
statement 
submitted 
demonstrating minimal impact. 

if  a 
is 

•  Provide a site flood plan. 

•  Provide an area 0.5m above 100-year 

flood level for storage of goods. 

•  Proposals  should 

involve  minimal 
impact  on  streetscape  and  adjoining 
properties.  Plans  and  elevations 
the 
showing 
streetscape  and  the  impact  on  the 
amenity  of  adjoining  properties  will  be 
required. 

impact  on 

visual 

•  Consideration  should  be  given 
to 
locating  new  dwellings  close 
to 
Carinya  Road  to  minimise  the  impact 
of walkways and filling. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SCHEDULE 4C–CONTROLS FOR SUBDIVISION IN CARINYA ROAD 

This  Schedule  specifies  the  development  controls  with  which  applications  for 
subdivision  must  comply.    The  primary  control  for  subdivision  is  the  site  area 
requirement,  included  in  Clause  4.3.1.  This  Schedule  includes  additional 
controls for subdivision, which apply to the properties that are known to comply 
with the site area requirements. 

Applications  for  subdivisions  made  in  relation  to  the  property  referred  to  in 
Column  1  shall  only  be  approved  if  it  complies  with  the  development  control 
specified  in  Column  2.    An  application  to  subdivide  a  particular  allotment  will 
need  to  satisfy  the  requirements  for  both  allotments  that  will  be  created  from 
the subdivision. Requirements are outlined separately in the following table for 
top  allotment  closest  to  Carinya  Road  and  the  lower  allotment  away  from 
Carinya Road. 

It should be noted that other controls may also be relevant to the consideration 
of an application for subdivision.  These are specified in Bankstown LEP 2015 
and other relevant sections of Bankstown DCP 2015, particularly Part B1. 

Property 
Address 
(1)  No 3 

Carinya 
Road 

Development Controls for Subdivision in Carinya 
Road 
(i)  Minimum site area is 650 square metres. 

(ii)  Access shall be directly off Carinya Road. 

(iii)  There should be a minimum 5.5 metre setback from 

(a)  Top 

Allotment 

the front boundary and a minimum of 900mm from 
each side boundary. 

(iv)  A minimum building envelope of 15 metres by 10 
metres should be identified on the site. Any future 
building must be located within this area. This 
building envelope must not include the setbacks 
specified in (iii) above. 

(v)  Any new dwelling built on this lot must be located 

above the 100-year flood line. However, a dwelling 
can partially locate below this level to satisfy the 
building envelope requirement. In this situation the 
usual floor level requirement (100 year flood plus 
half a metre) will still apply; 

(vi)  Any new garage and /or parking area must be 

located above the 100 year flood level; 

(vii)  An area shall be identified on the site to 

accommodate a permanent flood free access way 
from the lower allotment created by this subdivision 
extending from the lower boundary of the lot to 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

above the 100 year flood line and thence to Carinya 
Rd. The construction of the accessway can be 
deferred until such time as a dwelling is 
constructed, but its location should be identified at 
subdivision stage and included in a sec 88B 
Notation on the Certificate of Title. Its location shall 
be considered in relation to it being used by future 
occupants of the lower allotment that would be 
created by this subdivision, and the present 
occupants of Nos 3A and the adjoining lots at No 5 
Carinya Rd. 

(viii) The accessway referred to above must be 

constructed when a dwelling is built. It shall be 
designed to minimize loss of visual amenity, 
including by way of the following: 

• 
• 
• 

Keeping the accessway as short as possible; 
Appropriate design to minimize visual impact; 
Integrating with the design of the dwelling; 

(ix)  The accessway shall also be built to: 

•  Withstand forces of floodwater. A report from 
a qualified structural/hydraulic engineer is 
required to substantiate this. 
Built to appropriate safety standards to ensure 
that no one can fall off it; 
Not facilitate unauthorized access to the 
dwellings. 

• 

• 

(x)  Easements shall be created over the property in 

favour of the 2 allotments below (being Nos 3 and 
3A Carinya Rd) providing for permanent flood free 
access for pedestrians from these properties over 
this property to Carinya Rd. A driveway will satisfy 
this access requirement above the 100-year flood 
level. 

(xi)  This easement should if possible be located on the 
western side of the property to facilitate sharing of 
the access way with residences at No 5, 5A and 5B 
Carinya Rd. The easement should be registered 
and included as a sec 88b Notation on the 
Certificate of Title. 

(xii)  Limited filling will be considered in the area 

between any new dwelling and/or garage and 
Carinya Rd subject to: 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

• 

• 

• 

• 

It providing failsafe pedestrian or vehicular 
access; 
Filling not to extend more than 25 metres from 
the Carinya Rd frontage; 
There is a maximum filled area of 200 sq 
metres; Larger volumes may be considered if 
compensatory fill removal occurs elsewhere 
on the site; and 
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified 
and experienced person demonstrating 
minimal flood impact. 

(b)  Lower 

(i)  Minimum site area is 650 square metres. 

Allotment 

(ii)  Vehicle access shall be from Reserve Rd. An 

access handle of 3.5 metres width must also be 
provided from Reserve Rd. (See note 1 at end of 
this Schedule) 

(iii)  There should be a minimum setback from the side 

boundaries of 900mm. 

(iv)  A minimum building envelope of 15 metres by 10 
metres should be identified on the site. Any future 
building must be located within this area. This 
building envelope must not include the setbacks 
specified in (iii) above. 

(v)  Where the above requirement permits, and where 
feasible due to other site constraints, any new 
dwelling on this allotment shall be built a maximum 
of 10 metres from the northern boundary of this 
allotment. 

(vi)  Future development of this lot must provide for 
permanent failsafe flood free pedestrian access 
from the dwelling.  It should start from the floor level 
of the dwelling, and extend over the allotment and 
link with the easement and/or accessway created 
over the top allotment. It should also be constructed 
to enable its use by the current occupants of Nos 
3A and 5, 5B and 5A Carinya Rd.  Construction can 
be deferred until dwelling construction, but its 
location must be identified and specified on a sec 
88B Restriction as to user Notation on the 
Certificate of Title. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

32 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(vii)  Easements shall be created over the property in 
favour of the   allotment below (being No 3A 
Carinya Rd) as well as the property at 5, 5A and 5B 
Carinya Rd that provides for permanent flood free 
access for pedestrians over this property to the 
adjoining allotment to the north and thence to 
Carinya Rd. The easement should be registered 
and included as a sec 88b Notation on the 
Certificate of Title. 

(viii) The flood free access referred to above must be 

constructed when a dwelling is built. It must be 
designed to minimize loss of visual amenity, 
including by way of the following: 

• 

• 
• 

Keeping the accessway as short as possible, 
by building the dwelling close to the northern 
allotment boundary; 
Appropriate design to minimize visual impact; 
Integrating with the design of the dwelling; 

(ix)  The accessway shall also be built to: 

•  Withstand forces of floodwater. A report from 
a qualified structural/hydraulic engineer is 
required to substantiate this.  
Be safe and ensure that no one can fall off it; 
Not facilitate unauthorized access to the 
dwellings. 

• 
• 

(x)  Limited filling will be considered in this allotment 

subject to: 

• 

• 

• 

It being used to help provide failsafe 
pedestrian access; 
There is a maximum filled area of 200 sq 
metres; Larger volumes may be considered if 
compensatory fill removal occurs elsewhere 
on the site; and  
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified 
and experienced person demonstrating 
minimal flood impact. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

33 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(2) No 13a 
Carinya Road 

(a) Top 
Allotment 

(i)  Minimum site area is 650 square metres. 

(ii)  Vehicle access shall be from Carinya Rd. 

(iii)  There should be a minimum 5.5 metre setback from 

the front boundary and a minimum of 900mm from 
each side boundary. 

(iv)  A minimum building envelope of 15 metres by 10 
metres should be identified on the site. Any future 
building must be located within this area. This 
building envelope must not include the setbacks 
specified in (iii) above. 

(v)   Where permitted by the above requirement, any 

new dwelling built on this lot must be located above 
the 100-year flood line unless this is not possible 
due to the topography or other site constraints 
(such as bushfire issues or vegetation clearing.  
However, a dwelling can partially locate below this 
level if necessary to satisfy the building envelope 
requirement. In this situation the usual floor level 
requirement (100 year flood plus half a metre) will 
still apply. 

(vi)  Any new garage and /or parking area must be 

located above the 100-year flood level. 

(vii)  An area shall be identified on the site to 

accommodate a permanent flood free access way 
from the southern allotment boundary extending to 
above the 100-year flood line and thence to 
Carinya Rd. The construction of the accessway can 
be deferred until such time as a dwelling is 
constructed, but its location should be identified at 
subdivision stage and included in a sec 88B 
Notation on the Certificate of Title. Its location shall 
be considered in relation to it being used by future 
occupants of the lower allotment that would be 
created by this subdivision, and the present 
occupants of Nos 13 and 15 Carinya Rd. 

(viii) The accessway referred to above must be 
constructed when a dwelling is built. 

(ix)  Easements shall be created over the property in 
favour of the 2 allotments below (being No 13A 
Carinya Rd as well as the allotment created by this 
subdivision) that provides for permanent flood free 
access for pedestrians over this property to Carinya 
Rd. A driveway will satisfy this access requirement 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

34 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

above the 100-year flood level. This easement 
should if possible be located on the western side of 
the property to facilitate sharing of the flood free 
access way access with residence at 15 Carinya 
Rd. The easement should be registered and 
included as a sec 88b Notation on the Certificate of 
Title. 

(x)  Any flood free access shall be designed to 

minimize loss of visual amenity, including by way of 
the following: 

• 
• 
• 

Keeping the accessway as short as possible; 
Appropriate design to minimize visual impact; 
Integrating with the design of the dwelling; 

(xi)  The walkway shall also be built to: 

•  Withstand forces of floodwater. A report from 
a qualified structural/hydraulic engineer is 
required to substantiate this. 
Built to appropriate safety standards to ensure 
that no one can fall off it; 
Not facilitate unauthorized access to the 
dwellings. 

• 

• 

(xii)  Limited filling will be considered in the area 

between any new dwelling and/or garage and 
Carinya Rd subject to: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

It providing failsafe pedestrian or vehicular 
access; 
Filling not to extend more than 25 metres from 
the Carinya Rd frontage; 
There is a maximum filled area of 200 sq 
metres; Larger volumes may be considered if 
compensatory fill removal occurs elsewhere 
on the site; and  
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified 
and experienced person demonstrating 
minimal flood impact. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

35 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b) Lower 
Allotment 

(i)  Minimum site area is 650 square metres. 

(ii) 

 Vehicle access shall be from Reserve Rd. An access 
handle of 3.5 metres width must also be provided from 
Reserve. (See note 1 at end of this Schedule) 

(iii)  There should be a minimum 5.5 metre setback from the 
front boundary and a minimum of 900mm from each 
side boundary. 

(iv)  A minimum building envelope of 15 metres by 10 
metres should be identified on the site. Any future 
building must be located within this area. This building 
envelope must not include the setbacks specified in (iii) 
above. 

(v)  Where the above requirement permits, and where 

feasible due to other site constraints, any new dwelling 
on this allotment shall be built a maximum of 10 metres 
from the northern boundary of this allotment. 

(vi)  Future development of this lot must provide for 

permanent failsafe flood free pedestrian access from 
the dwelling.  It should start from the floor level of the 
dwelling, and extend over the allotment and link with 
the easement and/or accessway created over the top 
allotment. It should also be constructed to enable its 
use by the current occupants of Nos 13A and 15 
Carinya Rd.  Construction can be deferred until 
dwelling construction, but its location must be identified 
and specified on a sec 88B Restriction as to user 
Notation on the Certificate of Title. 

(vii)  Easements shall be created over the property in favour 

of the allotment below (being No 13A Carinya Rd) as 
well as the property at 15 Carinya Rd that provides for 
permanent flood free access for pedestrians over this 
property to Carinya Rd. The easement should be 
registered and included as a sec 88b Notation on the 
Certificate of Title. 

(viii) The flood free access referred to above must be 

constructed when a dwelling is built. It must be 
designed to minimize loss of visual amenity, including 
by way of the following:  
• 

Keeping the accessway as short as possible, 
by building the dwelling close to the northern 
allotment boundary; 
Appropriate design to minimize visual impact; 
 Integrating with the design of the dwelling; 

• 
• 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

36 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(3) No 23 
Carinya Road 

(a) Top 
Allotment 

(ix)  The accessway shall also be built to: 

•  Withstand forces of floodwater. A report from 
a qualified structural/hydraulic engineer is 
required to substantiate this.  
Be safe and ensure that no one can fall off it; 
Not facilitate unauthorized access to the 
dwellings 

• 
• 

(x)  Limited filling will be considered in this allotment 

subject to: 

• 

• 

• 

It being used to help provide failsafe 
pedestrian access; 
There is a maximum filled area of 200 sq 
metres; Larger volumes may be considered if 
compensatory fill removal occurs elsewhere 
on the site; and  
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified 
and experienced person demonstrating 
minimal flood impact. 

(i)  Minimum site area is 650 square metres. 

(ii)  Access shall be directly off Carinya Rd. 

(iii)  There should be a minimum 5.5 metre setback from 

the front boundary and a minimum of 900mm from 
each side boundary. 

(iv)  A minimum building envelope of 15 metres by 10 
metres should be identified on the site. Any future 
building must be located within this area. This 
building envelope must not include the setbacks 
specified in (iii) above. 

(v)  Where the above requirement permits, any new 

dwelling must be located above the 100 year flood 
line where this is possible having regard to other 
site constraints. However, a dwelling can partially 
locate below this level if necessary to satisfy the 
building envelope requirement. In this situation the 
usual floor level requirement (100-year flood plus 
half a metre) will still apply; 

(vi)  Any garage/car parking area should be built above 

the 100-year flood line. 

(vii)  For any part of the site below the 100-year flood 

level, an area shall be identified to accommodate a 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

37 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

permanent flood free access way extending to 
above the 100-year flood line and thence to 
Carinya Rd. Its location shall be identified and 
included in a sec 88B Notation on the Certificate of 
Title; 

(viii) The flood free accessway referred to directly above 
should be constructed as part of any new dwelling. 

(ix)  An easement shall be created over the property in 
favour of the lower allotment that would be created 
by this subdivision that provides for residents of this 
property to use the flood free access way referred 
to above, over this property to Carinya Rd.  This 
accessway can be a driveway above the 100-year 
flood level. The easement should be registered and 
included as a sec 88b Notation on the Certificate of 
Title. 

• 

(x)  Any accessway should be conform to the following: 
Keeping it as short as reasonably possible, by 
building the dwelling above the 100 year flood 
line if possible;  
Appropriate design to minimize visual impact; 
Integrating with the design of the dwelling; 

• 
• 

(xi)  The accessway shall also be built to: 

•  Withstand forces of floodwater. A report from 
a qualified structural/hydraulic engineer is 
required to substantiate this. 
Built to appropriate safety standards to ensure 
that no one can fall off it; 
Not facilitate unauthorized access to the 
dwellings. 

• 

• 

(xii)  Limited filling will be considered for this allotment 

subject to: 
• 

• 

• 

• 

It providing failsafe pedestrian or vehicular 
access; 
Filling not to extend more than 25 metres from 
the Carinya Rd frontage; 
There is a maximum filled area of 200 sq 
metres. More can be considered if fill is 
removed below the 100 year flood line to 
compensate; 
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified 
and experienced person demonstrating 
minimal flood impact. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

38 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b) Lower 
Allotment 

(i)  Minimum site area is 650 square metres. 

(ii)  Vehicle access shall preferably be from Reserve 

Rd. (See note 1 at end of this Schedule) 

(iii)  There should be a minimum 5.5 metre setback from 

the front boundary and a minimum of 900mm from 
each side boundary. 

(iv)  A minimum building envelope of 15 metres by 10 
metres should be identified on the site. Any future 
building must be located within this area. This 
building envelope must not include the setbacks 
specified in (iii) above. 

(v)  Where the above requirement permits, and where 
feasible due to other site constraints, any new 
dwelling on this allotment shall be built a maximum 
of 10 metres from the northern boundary of this 
allotment. 

(vi)  Future development of this lot must provide for 
permanent failsafe flood free pedestrian access 
from the dwelling to Carinya Rd.  This access 
should start from the floor level of the dwelling, and 
extend over the allotment and link with the 
easement and/or accessway created over the top 
allotment. Construction of the access way can be 
deferred until dwelling construction, but the location 
and type of access way must be considered at 
subdivision stage, and specified on a sec 88B 
Restriction as to user Notation on the Certificate of 
Title. 

(vii)  The flood free access referred to above must be 

constructed when a dwelling is built. It must be 
designed to minimize loss of visual amenity, 
including by way of the following: 

• 

• 
• 

Keeping the accessway as short as possible, 
by building the dwelling close to the northern 
allotment boundary; 
Appropriate design to minimize visual impact; 
Integrating with the design of the dwelling; 

The accessway shall also be built to: 

•  Withstand forces of floodwater. A report from 
a qualified structural/hydraulic engineer is 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

39 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

• 
• 

required to substantiate this. 
Be safe and ensure that no one can fall off it; 
Not facilitate unauthorized access to the 
dwellings 

(viii) Limited filling will be considered in this allotment subject 

to: 

• 

• 

• 

It being used to help provide failsafe 
pedestrian access; 
There is a maximum filled area of 200 sq 
metres; Larger volumes may be considered if 
compensatory fill removal occurs elsewhere 
on the site; and  
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified 
and experienced person demonstrating 
minimal flood impact. 

(4) No 57 
Carinya Road 

(a) Top 
Allotment  

(i)  Minimum site area is 500 square metres. 

(ii)  Vehicle access shall be directly off Carinya Rd. 

(iii)  There should be a minimum 5.5 metre setback from 
the front boundary, a maximum setback of 10 
metres from this boundary and a minimum of 
900mm from each side boundary. 

(iv)  A minimum building envelope of 15 metres by 10 
metres should be identified on the site. Any future 
building must be located within this area. This 
building envelope must not include the setbacks 
specified in (iii) above. 

(v)  Minimum floor levels should be the 100 year flood 

level plus 0.5 metre freeboard; 

(vi)  Failsafe vehicular access (driveways and car 

space) is required. 

(vii)  The subdivision should include provisions for 
failsafe pedestrian access to Carinya Rd 
(walkways, landscaping etc). Construction can be 
deferred until the dwelling is built, but the location 
of the proposed accessway should be identified 
and included on the Certificate of Title by way of a 
Sec 88B Notation. It should be located on or as 
close as practicable to the boundary with No 59 
Carinya Rd so that it can be shared with any future 
redevelopment of this property, as well as with the 
lower allotment created from this subdivision. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

40 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(viii) Future dwellings built on this lot shall include the 
permanent failsafe flood free access between the 
dwelling and Carinya Rd. The commencing level of 
the accessway shall be at the floor level of the 
dwelling. It shall be designed so that it can be 
shared with any future dwelling built on the lower 
allotment, as well as No 59 Carinya Rd, and any 
future subdivisions of this property. 

(ix)  An easement shall be created over the property in 
favour of the lower allotment, (and also No 59 
Carinya Rd) that provides for residents to use the 
flood free accessway referred to above.  The 
easement should be registered and included as a 
sec 88b Notation on the Certificate of Title. 

(x)  Any flood free access shall be designed to 
minimise loss of visual amenity, including:  

• 

• 
• 

Keeping the accessway as short as possible, 
by building the dwelling close to the Carinya 
Rd end; 
Appropriate design to minimize visual impact; 
Integrating with the design of the dwelling; 

(xi)  The accessway shall also be built to: 

•  Withstand forces of floodwater. A report from 
a qualified structural/hydraulic engineer is 
required to substantiate this.  
 Be safe and ensure that no one can fall off it; 
 Not facilitate unauthorized access to the 
dwellings 

• 
• 

(xii)  Limited filling will be considered in the area 

between any new dwelling and/or garage and 
Carinya Rd subject to: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

It providing failsafe pedestrian or vehicular 
access; 
Filling not to extend more than 25 metres from 
the Carinya Rd frontage; 
There is a maximum filled area of 200 sq 
metres; Larger volumes may be considered if 
compensatory fill removal occurs elsewhere 
on the site; and  
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified 
and experienced person demonstrating 
minimal flood impact. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

41 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b) Lower 
Allotment 

(i)  Minimum site area is 500 square metres. 

(ii)  Access shall be from Reserve Rd. (See note 1 at 

end of this Schedule) 

(iii)  There should be a minimum 5.5 metre setback from 

the front boundary and a minimum of 900mm from 
each side boundary. 

(iv)  A minimum building envelope of 15 metres by 10 
metres should be identified on the site. Any future 
building must be located within this area. This 
building envelope must not include the setbacks 
specified in (iii) above. 

(v)  Where the above requirement permits, and where 
feasible due to other site constraints, any new 
dwelling on this allotment shall be built a maximum 
of 10 metres from the northern boundary of this 
allotment. 

(vi)  Future development of this lot must provide for 
permanent failsafe flood free pedestrian access 
from the dwelling to Carinya Rd.  This access 
should start from the floor level of the dwelling, and 
extend over the allotment and link with the 
easement and/or accessway created over the top 
allotment. Construction of the access way can be 
deferred until dwelling construction, but its location 
and type of access way must be considered at 
subdivision stage, and specified on a sec 88B 
Restriction as to user Notation on the Certificate of 
Title. It should be designed so that it can facilitate 
sharing between the occupants (present and future) 
of No 59 Carinya Rd, including future subdivisions 
of this property.  

(vii) The flood free access referred to above must be 

constructed when a dwelling is built. It must be 
designed to minimize loss of visual amenity, 
including by way of the following: 

• 

• 
• 

Keeping the accessway as short as possible, 
by building the dwelling close to the northern 
allotment boundary; 
Appropriate design to minimize visual impact; 
Integrating with the design of the dwelling; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

42 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(viii) The accessway shall also be built to: 

•  Withstand forces of floodwater. A report from 
a qualified structural/hydraulic engineer is 
required to substantiate this. 
Be safe and ensure that no one can fall off it; 
Not facilitate unauthorized access to the 
dwellings 

• 
• 

(ix)  Limited filling will be considered in this allotment 

subject to: 
• 

• 

• 

It being used to help provide failsafe 
pedestrian access; 
There is a maximum filled area of 200 sq 
metres; Larger volumes may be considered if 
compensatory fill removal occurs elsewhere 
on the site; and 
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified 
and experienced person demonstrating 
minimal flood impact. 

(5) No 59 
Carinya Road 

Top Allotment 

(i)  Minimum site area is 500 square metres. 

(ii)  Vehicle access shall be directly off Carinya Rd. 

(iii)  There should be a minimum 5.5 metre setback from 
the front boundary, a maximum setback of 10 
metres from this boundary and a minimum of 
900mm from each side boundary. 

(iv)  A minimum building envelope of 15 metres by 10 

metres should be identified on the site. Any future 
building must be located within this area. This 
building envelope must not include the setbacks 
specified in (iii) above. 

(v)  Minimum floor levels should be the 100 year flood 

level plus 0.5 metre freeboard; 

(vi)  Failsafe vehicular access (driveways and car 

space) is required. 

(vii) The subdivision should include provisions for 
failsafe pedestrian access to Carinya Rd 
(walkways, landscaping etc). Construction can be 
deferred until the dwelling is built, but the location 
of the proposed accessway should be identified 
and included on the Certificate of Title by way of a 
Sec 88B Notation. It should be located on or as 
close as practicable to the boundary with No 57 
Carinya Rd so that it can be shared with any future 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

43 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

redevelopment of this property, as well as with the 
lower allotment created from this subdivision. 

(viii) Future dwellings built on this lot shall include the 

permanent failsafe flood free access between the 
dwelling and Carinya Rd. The commencing level of 
the accessway shall be at the floor level of the 
dwelling. It shall be designed so that it can be 
shared with any future dwelling built on the lower 
allotment, as well as No 57 Carinya Rd, and any 
future subdivisions of this property. 

(ix)  An easement shall be created over the property in 
favour of the lower allotment, (and also No 57 
Carinya Rd) that provides for residents to use the 
flood free accessway referred to above.  The 
easement should be registered and included as a 
sec 88b Notation on the Certificate of Title. 

(x)  Any flood free access shall be designed to minimise 

loss of visual amenity, including: 
• 

Keeping the accessway as short as possible, 
by building the dwelling close to the Carinya 
Rd end; 
Appropriate design to minimize visual impact; 
Integrating with the design of the dwelling; 

• 
• 

(xi)  The accessway shall also be built to: 

•  Withstand forces of floodwater. A report from 
a qualified structural/hydraulic engineer is 
required to substantiate this. 
Be safe and ensure that no one can fall off it; 
Not facilitate unauthorized access to the 
dwellings 

• 
• 

(xii)  Limited filling will be considered in the area 

between any new dwelling and/or garage and 
Carinya Rd subject to: 
• 

It providing failsafe pedestrian or vehicular 
access; 
Filling not to extend more than 25 metres from 
the Carinya Rd frontage; 
There is a maximum filled area of 200 sq 
metres; Larger volumes may be considered if 
compensatory fill removal occurs elsewhere 
on the site; and 
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified 
and experienced person demonstrating 
minimal flood impact. 

• 

• 

• 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

44 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(b) Lower 
Allotment 

(i)  Minimum site area is 500 square metres. 

(ii)  Access shall be from Reserve Rd. (See note 1 at 

end of this Schedule) 

(iii)  There should be a minimum 5.5 metre setback from 

the front boundary and a minimum of 900mm from 
each side boundary. 

(iv)  A minimum building envelope of 15 metres by 10 
metres should be identified on the site. Any future 
building must be located within this area. This 
building envelope must not include the setbacks 
specified in (iii) above. 

(v)  Where the above requirement permits, and where 
feasible due to other site constraints, any new 
dwelling on this allotment shall be built a maximum 
of 10 metres from the northern boundary of this 
allotment. 

(vi)  Future development of this lot must provide for 
permanent failsafe flood free pedestrian access 
from the dwelling to Carinya Rd.  This access 
should start from the floor level of the dwelling, and 
extend over the allotment and link with the 
easement and/or accessway created over the top 
allotment. Construction of the access way can be 
deferred until dwelling construction, but its location 
and type of access way must be considered at 
subdivision stage, and specified on a sec 88B 
Restriction as to user Notation on the Certificate of 
Title. It should be designed so that it can facilitate 
sharing between the occupants (present and future) 
of No 57 Carinya Rd, including future subdivisions 
of this property 

(vii)  The flood free access referred to above must be 

constructed when a dwelling is built. It must be 
designed to minimize loss of visual amenity, 
including by way of the following: 

• 

• 
• 

Keeping the accessway as short as possible, 
by building the dwelling close to the northern 
allotment boundary; 
Appropriate design to minimize visual impact; 
 Integrating with the design of the dwelling; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

45 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(viii) The accessway shall also be built to: 

•  Withstand forces of floodwater. A report from 
a qualified structural/hydraulic engineer is 
required to substantiate this. 
 Be safe and ensure that no one can fall off it; 
Not facilitate unauthorized access to the 
dwellings 

• 
• 

(ix)  Limited filling will be considered in this allotment 

subject to: 

• 

• 

• 

It being used to help provide failsafe 
pedestrian access; 
There is a maximum filled area of 200 sq 
metres; Larger volumes may be considered if 
compensatory fill removal occurs elsewhere 
on the site; and 
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified 
and experienced person demonstrating 
minimal flood impact. 

(6) No 65 
Carinya Road 

(a)Top 
Allotment 

(i)  Minimum site area is 500 square metres. 

(ii)  Vehicle access shall be directly off Carinya Rd. 

(iii)  There should be a minimum 5.5 metre setback from 
the front boundary, a maximum setback of 10 
metres from this boundary and a minimum of 
900mm from each side boundary. 

(iv)  A minimum building envelope of 15 metres by 10 
metres should be identified on the site. Any future 
building must be located within this area. This 
building envelope must not include the setbacks 
specified in (iii) above. 

(v)  Minimum floor levels should be the 100 year flood 

level plus 0.5 metre freeboard; 

(vi)  Failsafe vehicular access (driveways and car 

space) is required. 

(vii)  The subdivision should include provisions for 
failsafe pedestrian access to Carinya Rd 
(walkways, landscaping etc). Construction can be 
deferred until a dwelling is built, but the location 
and type of accessway should be identified at 
subdivision stage and included on the Certificate of 
Title by way of a Sec 88B Notation. It should be 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

46 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

located on or as close as practicable to the 
boundary with No 67 Carinya Rd so that it can be 
shared with any future redevelopment of this 
property, as well as with the lower allotment 
created from this subdivision. 

(viii) Future dwellings built on this lot shall include the 
permanent failsafe flood free access between the 
dwelling and Carinya Rd. The commencing level of 
the accessway shall be at the floor level of the 
dwelling. It shall be designed so that it can be 
shared with any future dwelling built on the lower 
allotment, as well as with No 67 Carinya Rd, and 
any future subdivisions of this property. 

(ix)  An easement shall be created over the property in 
favour of the lower allotment, (and also No 67 
Carinya Rd) that provides for residents to use the 
flood free accessway referred to above.  The 
easement should be registered and included as a 
sec 88b Notation on the Certificate of Title. 

(x)  Any flood free access shall be designed to 
minimise loss of visual amenity, including: 

• 

• 
• 

Keeping the accessway as short as possible, 
by building the dwelling close to the Carinya 
Rd end; 
Appropriate design to minimize visual impact; 
Integrating with the design of the dwelling; 

(xi)  The accessway shall also be built to: 

•  Withstand forces of floodwater. A report from 
a qualified structural/hydraulic engineer is 
required to substantiate this. 
Be safe and ensure that no one can fall off it; 
Not facilitate unauthorized access to the 
dwellings. 

• 
• 

(xii)  Limited filling will be considered in the area 

between any new dwelling and/or garage and 
Carinya Rd subject to: 

• 

• 

• 

It providing failsafe pedestrian or vehicular 
access; 
Filling not to extend more than 25 metres from 
the Carinya Rd frontage; 
There is a maximum filled area of 200 sq 
metres; Larger volumes may be considered if 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

47 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

• 

compensatory fill removal occurs elsewhere 
on the site; and 
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified and 
experienced person demonstrating minimal flood 
impact. 

(b) Lower 
Allotment 

(i)  Minimum site area is 500 square metres. 

(ii)  Access shall be from Reserve Rd. (See note 1 at 

end of this Schedule) 

(iii)  There should be a minimum 5.5 metre setback from 

the front boundary and a minimum of 900mm from 
each side boundary. 

(iv)  A minimum building envelope of 15 metres by 10 
metres should be identified on the site. Any future 
building must be located within this area. This 
building envelope must not include the setbacks 
specified in (iii) above. 

(v)  Where the above requirement permits, and where 
feasible due to other site constraints, any new 
dwelling on this allotment shall be built a maximum 
of 10 metres from the northern boundary of this 
allotment. 

(vi)  Future development of this lot must provide for 
permanent failsafe flood free pedestrian access 
from the dwelling to Carinya Rd.  This access 
should start from the floor level of the dwelling, and 
extend over the allotment and link with the 
easement and/or accessway created over the top 
allotment. Construction of the access way can be 
deferred until dwelling construction, but its location 
and type of access way must be considered at 
subdivision stage, and specified on a sec 88B 
Restriction as to user Notation on the Certificate of 
Title. It should be designed so that it can facilitate 
sharing between the occupants (present and future) 
of No 67 Carinya Rd 

(vii)  The flood free access referred to above must be 

constructed when a dwelling is built. It must be 
designed to minimize loss of visual amenity, 
including by way of the following: 

• 

Keeping the accessway as short as possible, 
by building the dwelling close to the northern 
allotment boundary; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

48 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

• 
• 

Appropriate design to minimize visual impact; 
Integrating with the design of the dwelling; 

(viii) The accessway shall also be built to: 

•  Withstand forces of floodwater. A report from 
a qualified structural/hydraulic engineer is 
required to substantiate this.  
Be safe and ensure that no one can fall off it; 
Not facilitate unauthorized access to the 
dwellings. 

• 
• 

(ix)  Limited filling will be considered in this allotment 

subject to: 

• 

• 

• 

It being used to help provide failsafe 
pedestrian access; 
There is a maximum filled area of 200 sq 
metres; Larger volumes may be considered if 
compensatory fill removal occurs elsewhere 
on the site; and  
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified 
and experienced person demonstrating 
minimal flood impact. 

(7) No 67 
Carinya Road 

(a) Top 
Allotment 

(i)  Minimum site area is 500 square metres 

(ii)  Vehicle access shall be directly off Carinya Rd. 

(iii)  There should be a minimum 5.5 metre setback from 

the front boundary, a maximum setback of 10 
metres from this boundary and a minimum of 
900mm from each side boundary. 

(iv)  A minimum building envelope of 15 metres by 10 
metres should be identified on the site. Any future 
building must be located within this area. This 
building envelope must not include the setbacks 
specified in (iii) above. 

(v)  Minimum floor levels should be the 100 year flood 

level plus 0.5 metre freeboard; 

(vi)  Failsafe vehicular access (driveways and car 

space) is required. 

(vii)  The subdivision should include provisions for 
failsafe pedestrian access to Carinya Rd 
(walkways, landscaping etc). Construction can be 
deferred until a dwelling is built, but the location 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

49 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

and type of accessway should be identified at 
subdivision stage and included on the Certificate of 
Title by way of a Sec 88B Notation. It should be 
located on or as close as practicable to the 
boundary with No 65 Carinya Rd so that it can be 
shared with any future redevelopment of this 
property, as well as with the lower allotment 
created from this subdivision. 

(viii) Future dwellings built on this lot shall include the 
permanent failsafe flood free access between the 
dwelling and Carinya Rd. The commencing level of 
the accessway shall be at the floor level of the 
dwelling. It shall be designed so that it can be 
shared with any future dwelling built on the lower 
allotment, as well as No 65 Carinya Rd, and any 
future subdivisions of this property. 

(ix)  An easement shall be created over the property in 
favour of the lower allotment, (and also No 65 
Carinya Rd) that provides for residents to use the 
flood free accessway referred to above.  The 
easement should be registered and included as a 
sec 88b Notation on the Certificate of Title. 

(x)  Any flood free access shall be designed to 
minimise loss of visual amenity, including: 

• 

• 
• 

Keeping the accessway as short as possible, 
by building the dwelling close to the Carinya 
Rd end; 
Appropriate design to minimize visual impact; 
Integrating with the design of the dwelling; 

(xi)  The accessway shall also be built to: 

•  Withstand forces of floodwater. A report from 
a qualified structural/hydraulic engineer is 
required to substantiate this. 
Be safe and ensure that no one can fall off it; 
Not facilitate unauthorized access to the 
dwellings 

• 
• 

(xii)  Limited filling will be considered in the area 

between any new dwelling and/or garage and 
Carinya Rd subject to: 

• 

• 

It providing failsafe pedestrian or vehicular 
access; 
Filling not to extend more than 25 metres from 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

50 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

• 

• 

the Carinya Rd frontage; 
There is a maximum filled area of 200 sq 
metres; Larger volumes may be considered if 
compensatory fill removal occurs elsewhere 
on the site; and 
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified 
and experienced person demonstrating 
minimal flood impact 

•  May be considered if compensatory fill 

• 

removal occurs elsewhere on the site; and 
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified 
and experienced person demonstrating 
minimal flood impact. 

(b) Lower 
Allotment 

(i)  Minimum site area is 500 square metres. 

(ii)  Access shall be from Reserve Rd. (See note 1 at 

end of this Schedule) 

(iii)  There should be a minimum 5.5 metre setback from 

the front boundary and a minimum of 900mm from 
each side boundary. 

(iv)  A minimum building envelope of 15 metres by 10 
metres should be identified on the site. Any future 
building must be located within this area. This 
building envelope must not include the setbacks 
specified in (iii) above. 

(v)  Where the above requirement permits, and where 
feasible due to other site constraints, any new 
dwelling on this allotment shall be built a maximum 
of 10 metres from the northern boundary of this 
allotment. 

(vi)  Future development of this lot must provide for 
permanent failsafe flood free pedestrian access 
from the dwelling to Carinya Rd.  This access 
should start from the floor level of the dwelling, and 
extend over the allotment and link with the 
easement and/or accessway created over the top 
allotment. Construction of the access way can be 
deferred until dwelling construction, but its location 
and type of access way must be considered at 
subdivision stage, and specified on a sec 88B 
Restriction as to user Notation on the Certificate of 
Title. It should be designed so that it can facilitate 
sharing between the occupants (present and future) 
of No 65 Carinya Rd 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

51 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(vii)  The flood free access referred to above must be 

constructed when a dwelling is built. It must be 
designed to minimize loss of visual amenity, 
including by way of the following: 

• 

• 
• 

Keeping the accessway as short as possible, 
by building the dwelling close to the northern 
allotment boundary; 
Appropriate design to minimize visual impact; 
Integrating with the design of the dwelling; 

(viii) The accessway shall also be built to: 

•  Withstand forces of floodwater. A report from 
a qualified structural/hydraulic engineer is 
required to substantiate this. 
Be safe and ensure that no one can fall off it; 
Not facilitate unauthorized access to the 
dwellings 

• 
• 

(ix)  Limited filling will be considered in this allotment 

subject to: 

• 

• 

• 

It being used to help provide failsafe 
pedestrian access; 
There is a maximum filled area of 200 sq 
metres; Larger volumes may be considered if 
compensatory fill removal occurs elsewhere 
on the site; and 
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified 
and experienced person demonstrating 
minimal flood impact. 

(8) No 69 
Carinya Road 

(a) Top 
Allotment 

(i)  Minimum site area is 500 square metres. 

(ii)  Vehicle access shall be directly off Carinya Rd. 

(iii)  There should be a minimum 5.5 metre setback from 
the front boundary, a maximum setback of 10 
metres from this boundary and a minimum of 
900mm from each side boundary. 

(iv)  A minimum building envelope of 15 metres by 10 
metres should be identified on the site. Any future 
building must be located within this area. This 
building envelope must not include the setbacks 
specified in (iii) above. 

(v)  Minimum floor levels should be the 100 year flood 

level plus 0.5 metre freeboard; 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

52 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(vi)  Failsafe vehicular access (driveways and car 

space) is required. 

(vii)  The subdivision should include provisions for 
failsafe pedestrian access to Carinya Rd 
(walkways, landscaping etc). Construction can be 
deferred until a dwelling is built, but the location 
and type of accessway should be identified at 
subdivision stage and included on the Certificate of 
Title by way of a Sec 88B Notation. It should be 
located on or as close as practicable to the 
boundary with No 71 Carinya Rd so that it can be 
shared with any future redevelopment of this 
property, as well as with the lower allotment 
created from this subdivision. 

(viii) Future dwellings built on this lot shall include the 
permanent failsafe flood free access between the 
dwelling and Carinya Rd. The commencing level of 
the accessway shall be at the floor level of the 
dwelling. It shall be designed so that it can be 
shared with any future dwelling built on the lower 
allotment, as well as No 71 Carinya Rd, and any 
future subdivisions of this property. 

(ix)  An easement shall be created over the property in 
favour of the lower allotment, (and also No 71 
Carinya Rd) that provides for residents to use the 
flood free accessway referred to above.  The 
easement should be registered and included as a 
sec 88b Notation on the Certificate of Title. 

(x)  Any flood free access shall be designed to 
minimise loss of visual amenity, including: 

• 

• 
• 

Keeping the accessway as short as possible, 
by building the dwelling close to the Carinya 
Rd end; 
Appropriate design to minimize visual impact; 
Integrating with the design of the dwelling; 

(xi)  The accessway shall also be built to: 

•  Withstand forces of floodwater. A report from 
a qualified structural/hydraulic engineer is 
required to substantiate this. 
Be safe and ensure that no one can fall off it; 
Not facilitate unauthorized access to the 
dwellings 

• 
• 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

53 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(xii)  Limited filling will be considered in the area 

between any new dwelling and/or garage and 
Carinya Rd subject to: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

It providing failsafe pedestrian or vehicular 
access; 
Filling not to extend more than 25 metres from 
the Carinya Rd frontage; 
There is a maximum filled area of 200 sq 
metres; Larger volumes may be considered if 
compensatory fill removal occurs elsewhere 
on the site; and  
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified 
and experienced person demonstrating 
minimal flood impact. 

(b) Lower 
Allotment 

(i)  Minimum site area is 500 square metres. 

(ii)  Access shall be from Reserve Rd. (See note 1 at 

end of this Schedule) 

(iii)  There should be a minimum 5.5 metre setback from 

the front boundary and a minimum of 900mm from 
each side boundary. 

(iv)  A minimum building envelope of 15 metres by 10 
metres should be identified on the site. Any future 
building must be located within this area. This 
building envelope must not include the setbacks 
specified in (iii) above. 

(v)  Where the above requirement permits, and where 
feasible due to other site constraints, any new 
dwelling on this allotment shall be built a maximum 
of 10 metres from the northern boundary of this 
allotment. 

(vi)  Future development of this lot must provide for 
permanent failsafe flood free pedestrian access 
from the dwelling to Carinya Rd.  This access 
should start from the floor level of the dwelling, and 
extend over the allotment and link with the 
easement and/or accessway created over the top 
allotment. Construction of the access way can be 
deferred until dwelling construction, but its location 
and type of access way must be considered at 
subdivision stage, and specified on a sec 88B 
Restriction as to user Notation on the Certificate of 
Title. It should be designed so that it can facilitate 
sharing between the occupants (present and future) 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

54 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

of No 71 Carinya Rd 

(vii)  The flood free access referred to above must be 

constructed when a dwelling is built. It must be 
designed to minimize loss of visual amenity, 
including by way of the following: 

• 

• 
• 

Keeping the accessway as short as possible, 
by building the dwelling close to the northern 
allotment boundary; 
Appropriate design to minimize visual impact; 
Integrating with the design of the dwelling; 

(viii) The accessway shall also be built to: 

•  Withstand forces of floodwater. A report from 
a qualified structural/hydraulic engineer is 
required to substantiate this.  
 Be safe and ensure that no one can fall off it; 
 Not facilitate unauthorized access to the 
dwellings 

• 
• 

(ix)  Limited filling will be considered in this allotment 

subject to: 

• 

• 

• 

It being used to help provide failsafe 
pedestrian access; 
There is a maximum filled area of 200 sq 
metres; Larger volumes may be considered if 
compensatory fill removal occurs elsewhere 
on the site; and  
A report is submitted from a suitably qualified 
and experienced person demonstrating 
minimal flood impact. 

Note  1:  At  the  time  of  writing  this  DCP,  the  lower  section  of  Carinya  Rd 
(referred to in Schedule 4C as Reserve Rd) was part of a Reserve under the 
control  of  the  Lands  Department  and  cannot  generally  be  used  for  legal 
access,  as  is  required  in  Schedule  4C  for  some  newly  created  allotments.  
Council is presently negotiating the status of this "road" with a view to having it 
transferred to Council for use as road, as this will make it easier for people to 
comply  with  this  requirement.  Alternatively,  it  is  a  matter  for  applicants  to 
negotiate  individually  with  the  Lands  Dept  regarding  access  from  this  road  to 
their properties. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

55 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SCHEDULE 5–CATCHMENTS AFFECTED BY STORMWATER FLOODING 

d
n
a

s
e
s
u

l

a
c
i
t
i
r
c

e
v
i
t
i
s
n
e
s

,
s
e
i
t
i
l
i

c
a
f

s
e
i
t
i
l
i

c
a
f

d
n
a
s
e
s
u

Flood Precinct 

Floor Level 

Building Components 

Structural Soundness 

Flood Effects 

Parking and 
Driveway Access 

Evacuation 

Management and Design 

i

i

,
n
o
s
v
d
b
u
S

i

Low 

d
n
a

t
s
i
r
u
o
t

,
l
a
i
t
n
e
d
s
e
r

i

l

i

a
c
r
e
m
m
o
c

,
l
a
i
r
t
s
u
d
n

i

d
e
t
a
e
r

l

n
o
n

d
n
a

n
o
i
t
a
e
r
c
e
r

,
s
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
d

l

l

i

a
n
o
s
s
e
c
n
o
c

,
n
a
b
r
u

d
n
a

s
e
s
u

l

a
c
i
t
i
r
c

e
v
i
t
i
s
n
e
s

,
s
e
i
t
i
l
i

c
a
f

s
e
i
t
i
l
i

c
a
f

d
n
a
s
e
s
u

t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
d

l

i

i

n
o
s
v
d
b
u
s

i

l

a
i
t
n
e
d
s
e
R

i

Medium 

d
n
a

l

i

a
c
r
e
m
m
o
c

l

a
i
r
t
s
u
d
n

i

d
e
t
a
e
r

l

t
s
i
r
u
o
t

t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
d

l

n
o
n

d
n
a

n
o
i
t
a
e
r
c
e
r

n
a
b
r
u

d
n
a

s
e
s
u

l

a
c
i
t
i
r
c

e
v
i
t
i
s
n
e
s

,
s
e
i
t
i
l
i

c
a
f

d
n
a

s
e
s
u

,
s
e
i
t
i
l
i

c
a
f

t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
d

l

l

i

a
n
o
s
s
e
c
n
o
c

i

i

,
n
o
s
v
d
b
u
s

i

High 

,
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
d

l

d
e
t
a
e
r

l

n
o
n

d
n
a

n
o
i
t
a
e
r
c
e
r

n
a
b
r
u

n
o
n

d
n
a

n
o
i
t
a
e
r
c
e
r

n
a
b
r
u

d
n
a

t
s
i
r
u
o
t

,
l
a
i
t
n
e
d
s
e
r

i

l

i

a
c
r
e
m
m
o
c

,
l
a
i
r
t
s
u
d
n

i

l

i

a
n
o
s
s
e
c
n
o
c

t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
d

l

1,2,6 

1,3,6 

4,6 

1,2,6 

5,6 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

2 

1 

1 

1,3 

2,3 

2,3 

2,3 

2,3 

2,3 

1 

1 

1 

2,3,4,5
,6 

2,3,4,5
,6 

2,3,4,5,6 

3,5,6,7
,8 

5,6,9 

2,6 

3,6 

3,6 

4,6 

5 

2,3,4 

2,3,4 

2,3,4 

2,3,4 

1,7 

5,6 

1 

3 

1 

4 

2,3 

2,3 

3,5,6,7
,8 

4,6 

5,6,9 

5 

2,3,4 

2,3,4 

                = POTENTIALLY UNSUITABLE LAND USE                                     = Not relevant 

Notes to Table 
1. 
2. 

Freeboard equals an additional height of 500mm. 
The  relevant  environmental  planning  instrument  (generally  the  LEP)  identifies  development  permissible  with  consent  in  various 
zones in Bankstown. However, constraints specific to individual sites may preclude Council granting consent for development on all 
or part of a site, whether or not there is compliance with this DCP, and whether or not the use is permissible under the LEP.  The 
above  matrix  identifies  where  certain  development  types  will  be  considered  unsuitable due  to flood  related  risks.    If  development 
consent is granted, compliance with the controls in this DCP may also lead to design constraints that could reduce the development 
yield for the site. 

3.  Uses identified as "potentially unsuitable" will generally not be considered as a result of their overall incompatibility with flood risk. 
Such uses may however be considered where they show compliance with the objectives and the performance criteria of the DCP. 
In such cases, these uses will also need to comply with controls as specified by Council. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

56 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

4. 

Filling of a site that is partially affected by flooding (if acceptable to Council) may change the flood risk precinct, and the associated 
development controls that apply to development on the site. 

5.  Development controls relate to the flood risk precinct identified for the site. Where a site has two or more flood risk categories the 

relevant sets of controls apply. 

6.  Refer to section 5 of the DCP for planning considerations involving only the erection of a fence. Any fencing that forms part of a 
proposed development is subject to the relevant flood effect and structural soundness considerations of the relevant category. 
7.  Uses defined as "critical uses and facilities" are considered "potentially unsuitable" in the high and medium precinct and on all land 

up to the edge of the floodplain. 

8.  Council  may  have  undertaken  mapping  showing  "major  overland  flowpaths"  (see  definitions)  in  some  areas.  This  mapping  is  not 

exhaustive,  and  in  some  cases  a  site  specific  flood  study  may  be  necessary  to  determine  the  presence  of  overland  flow  paths.   
Council may require that these flowpaths remain undeveloped completely or partially, to provide for the conveyance of floodwaters. 
Some  overland  flow  paths  are  protected  by  an  easement,  and  in  these  cases,  development  would  not  be  permitted  over  the 
easement. Refer to Council to determine whether these areas have been mapped for particular catchments and/or properties. 
9.  Regarding the floor level control for commercial and industrial uses, it is generally expected that the habitable floor level should be 
at the 100-year flood level plus freeboard. A lower floor level could be considered where compliance with this standard would result 
in  complications  with  designing  and  operating  the  development,  as  well  as  any  significant  inconsistencies  with  the  floor  levels  of 
existing developments. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

57 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Floor Level 

1.  Non  habitable  floor  levels  should  be  no  lower  than  the  20–year  flood  unless 

justified by a specific assessment. 

2.  All habitable floor levels to be equal to or greater than the 100–year flood level 

plus freeboard. 

3. 

The level of habitable floor areas to be equal to or greater than the 100–year 
flood  level  plus freeboard.  If  this  is  impractical for development  in a  Business 
zone the floor level should be as high as possible (Refer Note to Table 9). 

4.  All floor levels to be equal to or greater than the 20-year flood unless justified 

by specific assessment; 

5. 

Floor  levels  to  be  greater  than or  equal  to  the  prescribed floor  level  (which  is 
the floor level that applies to that particular type of development). Where this is 
not  practical  due  to  the  compatibility  with  the  height  of  adjacent  buildings,  or 
with the floor level of existing buildings, or the need for access by persons with 
disabilities, a lower floor level may be considered. In these circumstances, the 
floor  level  is  to  be  as  high  as  practical.  When  undertaking  alterations  or 
additions, the floor level can be the same as the existing floor level. However in 
all  cases,  any  storage  of  dangerous  goods,  plant  etc  should  be  above  the 
prescribed floor level. 

6.  A restriction on the use of the land is to be registered on the Certificate of Title 
where  the  lowest  floor  level  is  elevated  more  than  1.5  metres  above  finished 
ground level, requiring that the undercroft area is not to be enclosed. The use 
of  roller  shutters,  hit  and  miss  brickwork  and  similar  methods  is  however 
permissible  where  there  is  no  significant  flood  impact.  Non–habitable  uses 
(laundry, toilet, bathroom and similar uses) can be enclosed where there is no 
significant flood impact. 

7.  Habitable  floor  levels  to  be  equal  to  or  greater  than  the  100–year  flood  level 
plus  freeboard  where  possible  or  otherwise  no  lower  than  the  20–year  flood 
unless justified by specific assessment 

Building Components 

1.  All  structures  to  have  flood  compatible  building  components  below  the  100–

year flood level plus freeboard. 

Structural Soundness 

1.  Applicant  to  demonstrate  that  the  structure  can  withstand  the  forces  of 
floodwater,  debris,  and  buoyancy  up  to  and  including  a  100–year  flood  plus 
freeboard, or up to the probable maximum flood (PMF) if required to satisfy the 
evacuation requirement (see below); an engineers report may be required. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

58 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

2.  Applicant  to  demonstrate  that  the  structure  can  withstand  the  forces  of 
floodwater,  debris,  and  buoyancy  up  to  and  including  a  100–year  flood  plus 
freeboard. An engineers report may be required. 

3.  Engineers  report  is  required  to  certify  that  the  structure  can  withstand  the 
forces of floodwater, debris and buoyancy up to and including a 100–year flood 
plus freeboard. 

4.  Engineers  report  is  required  to  certify  that  the  structure  can  withstand  the 
forces of floodwater, debris and buoyancy up to and including a 100–year flood 
plus  freeboard,  or  up  to  the  PMF  if  required  to  satisfy  the  evacuation 
requirement (see below). 

Flood Effects 

1.  Applicant  to  demonstrate  to  Council's  satisfaction  (by  way  of  an  engineers 
report if requested) that the development resulting from the subdivision will not 
increase  flooding  effects  elsewhere,  having  regard  to:  loss  of  flood  storage; 
changes in flood levels, flows and velocities; the cumulative impacts of multiple 
developments  in  the  vicinity.  The  report  should  also  identify  the  presence  of 
any "major overland flow paths" (refer to Note 8 in Notes to Table).    Note: 
Where major overland flow paths are present, this may result in restrictions of 
the  proposed  development  to  maintain  the  functioning  of  the  flowpath,  and/or 
to  manage  the  impacts  of  development  on  properties.  Refer  also to  Council's 
Development Engineering Standards Policy. 

2.  Applicant  to  demonstrate  to  Council's  satisfaction  (by  way  of  an  engineers 
report  if  requested)  that  the  development  will  not  increase  flooding  effects 
elsewhere,  having  regard  to:  loss  of  flood  storage;  changes  in  flood  levels, 
flows  and  velocities;  the  cumulative  impacts  of  multiple  developments  in  the 
vicinity.  The  report  should  also  identify  the  presence  of  any  "major  overland 
flow  paths"  (refer  to  Note  8  in  Notes  to  Table).    Note:  Where  major  overland 
flow  paths  are  present,  this  may  result  in  restrictions  of  the  proposed 
development to maintain the functioning of the flowpath, and/or to manage the 
impacts  of  development  on  properties.  Refer  also  to  Council's  Development 
Engineering Standards Policy. 

3.  Council may require that the creation of an easement, or that a Restriction be 
placed  on  the  Title  Certificate  identifying  the  location  of  "major  overland  flow 
paths" or locations of significant backwater flooding. 

Parking and Driveway Access 

1.  Applicant  to  show  that  car  parking  and  driveway  access  for any  development 
resulting from the subdivision can be provided in accordance with this DCP. 

2. 

The minimum surface level of open car parking spaces or carports shall be as 
high as practical, and not below: 
(i) 

the 20 year flood level or 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

59 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(ii) 

the level of the crest of the road at the location where the site has access 
(which ever is the lower). 

In the case of garages, the minimum surface level shall be as high as practical 
but no lower than the 20–year flood. Surface levels should also be determined 
having  regard  to  the  control  Number  4  below  relating  to  depths  of  inundation 
over driveways. 

3.  Garages  capable  of  accommodating  more  than  3  vehicles  on  land  zoned  for 
urban  purposes,  or  enclosed  car  parking  must  be  protected  from  inundation 
from the 100 year flood; 

4. 

The level of the driveway providing access between the road and the parking 
spaces should be as high as practical, and not lower than 0.3 metres below the 
100–year  flood  level.  However,  Council  may  consider  a  lower  level  for  the 
driveway  in  the  following  circumstances,  where  risk  to  human  life  is  not 
compromised. 
a.  Where the road is lower than the parking space, no part of the driveway 

should be inundated to a greater depth than the roadway 

b.  Where  the  car  parking  space  is  lower  than  the  road,  the  depth  of 
inundation  over  the  driveway  must  not  be  greater  than  the  car  park 
inundation  depth,  and  the  driveway  must  rise  continuously  in  an  egress 
direction 

c.  Where the car parking space and road are both below the 100–year flood 
level, the depth of inundation over the driveway must not be greater than 
the depth at either the car parking space or the road. Where feasible, the 
driveway should rise continuously in the egress direction. 

5.  Enclosed car parking and car parking areas capable of accommodating more 
than 3 vehicles (other than on rural zoned land with a floor level below the 20 
year  flood  level  or  more  than  0.8  metres  below  the  100  year  flood  level  shall 
have adequate warning signs, signage and exits. 

6.  Restraints or vehicle barriers to be provided to prevent floating vehicles leaving 

the site in a 100–year flood. 

7. 

8. 

The  minimum  surface  level  of  open  car  parking  spaces,  carports  or  garages 
shall be as high as practical. 

The driveway providing access between the road and the parking space shall 
be as high as practical and generally rising in the egress direction. 

9.  Driveway and parking space levels to be no lower than the design ground floor 
levels. Where this is not practical, a lower level may be considered where the 
risk  to  human  life  would  not  be  compromised.  In  these  circumstances,  the 
levels  are  to  be  as  high  as  practical,  and  when  undertaking  additions  or 
alterations, no lower than the existing level. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

60 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Evacuation 

1.  Applicant  to  show  that  evacuation  for  development  resulting  from  the 

subdivision can be provided in accordance with this DCP. 

2.  Reliable  access  for  pedestrians  or  vehicles  is  required  from  the  building, 
commencing at a minimum level equal to the lowest habitable floor level to an 
area  of  refuge  above  the  PMF.  Such  a  refuge  may  comprise  a  minimum  of 
20%  of  the  gross  floor  area  of  the  dwelling  being  above  the  PMF  level.  An 
engineers report may be required. 

3.  Reliable  access  for  pedestrians  or  vehicles  is  required.  An  engineers  report 
may  be  needed  to  address  this  matter  and  should  consider  access  for 
pedestrians  or  vehicles  to  a  publicly  accessible  location  above  the  100–year 
flood  level.  Where  feasible,  an  area  of  refuge  within  the  building  or 
development site that is above the PMF level, and which is equal to 20% of the 
gross  floor  area  of  the  development,  or  such  other  area  capable  of 
accommodating the number of people likely to require evacuation; 

4. 

The  evacuation  requirements  of  the  development  are  to  be  considered.  An 
engineers  report  will  be  required  if  circumstances  are  possible  that  the 
evacuation of persons may not be achieved within the effective warning time. 

5.  An evacuation strategy to be considered and proposals made for improving the 
evacuation arrangements  to  the  site  in  relation  to the present  situation  where 
possible. Adequate flood warning should be available to allow safe and orderly 
evacuation without undue reliance on the SES or other authorised emergency 
personnel.  Options  could  include  the  provision  of  access  for  pedestrians  or 
vehicles to a publicly accessible location, or an area of refuge equal to at least 
20% of the gross floor area, or such other area capable of accommodating the 
number  of  people  likely  to  require  evacuation  that  is  above  the  probable 
maximum flood level. 

6. 

The  development  should  be  consistent  with  any  flood  evacuation  strategy, 
flood plan or similar strategy that has been adopted by Council. 

Management and Design 

1.  Applicant  to  demonstrate  that  development resulting  from the  subdivision  can 

be undertaken in accordance with this DCP. 

2.  A  Site  Emergency  Response  Flood  Plan  is  required  where  floor  levels  are 
below  the  prescribed  floor  level  (which  is  the  floor  level  that  applies  to  that 
particular type of development). 

3.  Applicant  to  demonstrate  that  there  is  an  available  area  above  the  100-year 

flood level plus freeboard to store goods; 

4.  No  storage  of  materials  below  the  prescribed  floor  level  which  may  cause 

pollution or be potentially hazardous during floods. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

61 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 7–EXPLANATORY NOTES ON LODGING APPLICATIONS 

7.1  Follow these major steps to lodge the application: 

(a)   Check the proposal is permissible in the zoning of the land by reference to any 

applicable environmental planning instruments. 

(b)  Consider  any  other  relevant  planning  controls  of  Council  (e.g.  controls  in  any 

other relevant part of the Bankstown DCP 2015). 

(c)  Determine the applicable floodplain or component thereof (e.g. Georges River, 
Carinya Road Area) and flood risk precinct (low, medium or high) within which 
your site is situated. Enquire with Council regarding existing flood risk mapping 
or whether a site–specific assessment may be warranted (for example, if local 
overland  flooding  is  a  potential  problem).  A  property  may  be  located  in  more 
than  one  precinct  and  the  assessment  must  consider  the  controls  for  each 
precinct  relative  to  where  the  site  is  located.  The  flow  diagram  below 
summarises this consideration process. 

(d)  Determine  the  land  use  category  relevant  to  the  development  proposal,  by 
firstly  confirming  how  it  is  defined  by  the  relevant  environmental  planning 
instrument and secondly by ascertaining the land use category from Schedule 
2 of this Plan. 

(e)  Assess  and  document  how  the  proposal  will  achieve  the  performance  criteria 
for development and associated fencing provided by clauses 3.2.1 and 5.2.1 of 
this Plan. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

62 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(f)  Check if the proposal will satisfy the prescriptive controls for different land use 
categories in different flood risk precincts, as specified in the Schedule 3 or 4 
of this Plan depending on which floodplain the site is located. 

(g) 

If  the  proposal  does  not  comply  with  the  prescriptive  controls,  determine 
whether the performance criteria are nonetheless achieved. 

(h) 

Illustrations  provided  in  this  plan  to  demonstrate  the  intent  of  development 
controls  are  diagrammatic  only.  Proposals  must  satisfy  all  relevant  controls 
contained in this plan and associated legislation. 

(i)  The assistance of Council staff or an experienced floodplain consultant may be 
required at various steps in the process to ensure that the requirements of this 
Plan are fully and satisfactorily addressed. 

Note: Compliance with all the requirements of this plan does not guarantee that an 
application will be approved. 

7.2 

Information required with an application to address this plan is as follows: 

(a)  Applications  must  include  information  which  addresses  all  relevant  controls 

listed above, and the following matters as applicable. 

(b)  Applications  for  Concessional  Development  (see  Schedule  2)  to  an  existing 
dwelling on Flood Prone Land shall be accompanied by documentation from a 
registered surveyor confirming existing floor levels. 

(c)  Development  applications  affected  by  this  plan  shall  be  accompanied  by  a 

survey plan showing: 

(i)  The position of the existing building/s or proposed building/s; 
(ii)  The  existing  ground  levels  to  Australian  Height  Datum  around  the 

perimeter of the building and contours of the site; and 

(iii)  The existing or proposed floor levels to Australian Height Datum. 

(d)  Applications 

for  earthworks, 

land  and  subdivision  shall  be 
accompanied  by  a  survey  plan  (with  a  contour  interval  of  0.25m)  showing 
relative levels to Australian Height Datum. 

filling  of 

(e)  For 

large  scale  developments,  or  developments 

in  critical  situations, 
particularly  where  an existing  catchment  based flood  study  is  not available,  a 
flood study using a fully dynamic one or two dimensional computer model may 
be required. For smaller developments the existing flood study may be used if 
available  and  suitable  (e.g.  it  contains  sufficient  local  detail),  or  otherwise  a 
flood  study  prepared  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the  “Australian  Rainfall  and 
Runoff”  publication,  Council’s  Drainage  Design  Code  and  the  Floodplain 
Management  Manual,  will  be  required.    From  this  study,  the  following 
information shall be submitted in plan form: 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

63 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

(i)  water surface contours; 
(ii)  velocity vectors; 
(iii)  velocity and depth product contours; 
(iv)  delineation of flood risk precincts relevant to individual floodplains; and 
(v)  show both existing and proposed flood profiles for the full range of events 
for  total    development  including  all  structures  and  works  (such  as 
revegetation/ enhancements). 

This  information  is  required  for  the  pre–developed  and  post–developed 
scenarios. 

(f)  Where  the  controls 

for  a  particular  development  proposal  require  an 
assessment  of  structural  soundness  during  potential  floods,  the  following 
impacts must be addressed: 

(i) 
hydrostatic pressure; 
(ii)  hydrodynamic pressure; 
(iii) 
impact of debris; and 
(iv)  buoyancy forces. 

Foundations need to be included in the structural analysis. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

64 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

SECTION 8–DEFINITIONS 

Adequate  warning  systems,  signage  and  exits  means  where  the  following  is 
provided: 

(a)  an  audible  and  visual  alarm  system  which  alerts  occupants  to  the  need  to 
evacuate, sufficiently prior to likely inundation to allow for the safe evacuation 
of pedestrians and vehicles; 

(b)  signage to identify the appropriate procedure and route to evacuate; and 

(c)  exits  which  are  located  such  that  pedestrians  evacuating  any  location  during 
any flood do not have to travel through deeper water to reach a place of refuge 
above the 100 year flood away from the enclosed car parking. 

Average exceedence probability (AEP) means the magnitude of a storm. 

Average Recurrence Interval (ARI) means the long term average number of years 
between the occurrence of a flood as big as, or larger than, the selected event. For 
example, floods with a discharge as great as, or greater than, the 20 year ARI flood 
event will occur on average once every 20 years. ARI is another way of expressing 
the likelihood of occurrence of a flood event. 

Catch  drain  means  a  diversion  channel  constructed  above  a  road  or  batter  to 
intercept surface water. 

Channel means a natural  stream  that  conveys  water,  a  ditch  or  drain  excavated  for 
the flow of water. 

Culvert  means  one  or  more  adjacent  pipes  or  enclosed  conduits  for  carrying  a 
watercourse beneath a road or other earthworks. 

Designated flood means the 1 in 100 year flood for the Georges River. 

Designated  flood  level  means  the  level  reached  by  a  1  in  100–year  flood  as 
advised by the Department of Public Works and Services in 1986. 

Effective  warning  time  means  the  time  available  after  receiving  advice  of  an 
impending  flood  and  before  the  floodwaters  prevent  appropriate  flood  response 
actions being undertaken. The effective warning time is typically used to move farm 
equipment,  move  stock,  raise  furniture,  evacuate  people  and  transport  their 
possessions. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

65 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Enclosed  car  parking  means  car  parking  which  is  potentially  subject  to  rapid 
inundation,  which  consequently  increases  risk  to  human  life  and property  (such  as 
basement  of  bunded  car  parking  areas).    The  following  criteria  apply  for  the 
purposes of determining what is enclosed car parking: 

(a) 

flooding  of  surrounding  areas  may  raise  water  levels  above  the  perimeter 
which  encloses  the  car  park  (normally  the  entrance),  resulting  in  rapid 
inundation of the car park to depths greater than 0.8 metre; and 

(b)  drainage  of  accumulated  water  in  the  car  park  has  an  outflow  discharge 

capacity significantly less than the potential inflow capacity. 

Extreme  flood  means  an  estimate  of  the  probable  maximum  flood,  which  is  the 
largest flood likely to ever occur. 

Fail  safe  access  for  pedestrians  means  a  reliable  and  permanent  system  which 
will allow safe evacuation for pedestrians up to and including the 100 year flood and 
may include a walkway and stairs designed in accordance with the Building Code of 
Australia  (BCA),  or  where  necessitated  by  topography,  fixed  ladders  designed  in 
accordance  with  Australian  Standard  AS  1657  (AS,  1992),  located  at or  above  the 
100 year flood level. 

Fail  safe  access  for  motor  vehicles  means  a  reliable  and  permanent  system 
which will allow the safe movement of vehicles during all floods up to and including 
the 100 year flood. 

Flood  means  a  relatively  high  stream  flow  which  overtops  the  natural  or  artificial 
banks  in  any  part  of  a  stream,  river,  estuary,  lake  or  dam,  and/or  local  overland 
flooding  associated  with  major  drainage  as  defined  by  the  FDM  before  entering  a 
watercourse. 

Note:  Consistent  with  the  FDM,  this  DCP  does  not  apply  in  the  circumstances  of  local 
drainage  inundation  as  defined  in  the  FDM  and  determined  by  Council.    Local  drainage 
problems can generally be minimised by the adoption of urban building controls requiring a 
minimum difference between finished floor and ground levels. 

Flood  awareness  means  an  appreciation  of  the  likely  effects  of  flooding  and  a 
knowledge of the relevant flood warning and evacuation procedures. 

Flood  compatible  building  components  means  a  combination  of  measures 
incorporated  in  the design  and/or  construction and  alteration  of  individual  buildings 
or  structures  subject  to  flooding,  and  the  use  of  flood  compatible  materials  for  the 
reduction or elimination of flood damage. 

Flood  compatible  materials  means  the  materials  used  in  building  which  are 
resistant to damage when inundated. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

66 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Flood  evacuation  strategy  means  the  proposed  strategy  for  the  evacuation  of 
areas  within  effective  warning  time  during  periods  of  flood  as  specified  within  any 
policy of Council, the FRMP, the relevant SES Flood Plan, by advices received from 
the  State  Emergency  Services  (SES)  or  as  determined  in  the  assessment  of 
individual proposals. 

Flood  plan  means  a  management  plan  prepared  in  consultation  with  the  State 
Emergency  Services  (SES)  which  demonstrates  the  means  to  minimise  the 
likelihood of flood damage, including demonstrated ability to move goods above the 
flood  level  within  the  likely  available  flood  warning  time  and  a  strategy  to  safely 
evacuate persons on the site. 

Floodplain  Risk  Management  Plan  (FRMP)  means  a  plan  prepared  for  one  or 
more floodplains in accordance with the requirements of the FDM or its predecessor 
of which this DCP forms part. 

Floodplain  Risk  Management  Study  (FRMS)  means  a  study  prepared for  one  or 
more  floodplains  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of  the  FDM  or  its 
predecessor. 

Flood prone land (being synonymous with flood liable and floodplain) is the area of 
land which is subject to inundation by the probable maximum flood (PMF). 

Flood  proofing  means  a  combination  of  measures  incorporated  in  the  design 
and/or  construction  and  alteration  of  individual  buildings  or  structures  subject  to 
flooding,  for  the  reduction  or  elimination  of  flood  damage  as  indicated  in  the 
Floodplain Development Manual. 

Freeboard means a factor of safety expressed as the height above the design flood 
level.  Freeboard provides a factor of safety to compensate for uncertainties in the 
estimation  of  flood  levels  across  the  floodplain,  such  and  wave  action,  localised 
hydraulic behaviour and impacts that are specific event related, such as levee and 
embankment  settlement,  and  other  effects  such  as  “greenhouse”  and  climate 
change. 

Habitable room means a room used for normal domestic activities that includes a 
bedroom,  living  room,  lounge  room,  music  room,  television  room,  kitchen,  dining 
room,  sewing  room,  study,  playroom  and  sunroom;  but  excludes  a  bathroom, 
laundry,  water  closet,  food  storage  pantry,  walk-in  wardrobe,  corridor,  hallway, 
lobby, photographic darkroom, clothes drying room, and other spaces of specialised 
nature occupied neither frequently nor for extended periods. 

Habitable floor area means: 

(a) 

in  a  residential  situation:  a  living  or  working  area,  such  as  a  lounge  room, 
dining room, rumpus room, kitchen, bedroom or workroom; and 

(b) 

in an industrial or commercial situation: an area used for offices or to store 
valuable possessions susceptible to flood damage in the event of a flood. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

67 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Hazard  means  a  source  of  potential  harm  or  a  situation  with  a  potential  to  cause 
loss.  In relation to this plan, the hazard is flooding which has the potential to cause 
harm or loss to the community. 

High  hazard  flood  fringe  areas  means  the  areas  subject  to  inundation  in  a 
designated  flood  of  1  metre  or  more,  but  not  including  floodway  areas,  interim 
floodways, or the special development areas referred to in this DCP. 

High  hazard  flood  fringe  areas  means  the  areas  subject  to  inundation  in  a 
designated flood of 1 metre or more. 

Hydraulic hazard is the hazard as determined by the provisional criteria outlined in 
the FDM in a 100 year flood event. 

Interim  floodways  means  the  areas  subject  to  current  investigations  to  determine 
the  extent  and  severity  of  the  flood  hazard.    In  the  case  of  severe  hazard,  the 
investigation  should  determine  whether  or  not  flood  mitigation  measures  can  and 
should  be  introduced  to  reduce  the  hazard  to  that  normally  associated  with  high 
hazard flood fringe  areas.  This  would  allow  Council to  approve  new  buildings  and 
additions.    Only  one  interim  floodway  currently  exists  and  this  is  located  in  the 
vicinity of MacLaurin Avenue and Henry Lawson Drive, East Hills. 

Local  overland  flooding  means  inundation  by  local  runoff  rather  than  overbank 
discharge from a stream, river, estuary, lake or dam. 

Low  hazard  flood  fringe  areas  means  those  areas  subject  to  inundation  in  a 
designated flood to a depth of less than 1 metre. 

Merit  approach  is  an  approach,  the  principles  of  which  are  embodied  in  the  FDM 
which weighs social, economic, ecological and cultural impacts of land use options 
for  different  flood  prone  areas  together  with  flood  damage,  hazard  and  behaviour 
implications,  and  environmental  protection  and  well–being  of  the State’s  rivers  and 
floodplains. 

100  year  flood  means  the  flood  that  has  a  1%  chance  of  occurring  or  being 
exceeded in any year. 

Probable  maximum  flood  (PMF)  means  the  largest  flood  that  could  conceivably 
occur  at  a  particular 
from  probable  maximum 
precipitation. 

location,  usually  estimated 

Probable maximum precipitation (PMP) means the greatest depth of precipitation 
for  a  given  duration  meteorologically  possible  over  a  given  size  storm  area  at  a 
particular location at a particular time of the year, with no allowance made for long-
term  climatic  trends  (World  Meteorological  Organisation,  1986).    It  is  the  primary 
input to the estimation of the probable maximum flood. 

Probability  means  a  statistical  measure  of  the  expected  chance  of  flooding  (see 
ARI). 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

68 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bankstown City Council 

Reliable access  during  a  flood means  the  ability  for  people  to  safely  evacuate  an 
area subject to flooding, having regard to the depth and velocity of flood waters, the 
suitability of the evacuation route, and without a need to travel through areas where 
water depths increase. 

Risk  means  the  chance  of  something  happening  that  will  have  an  impact.  It  is 
measured  in  terms  of  consequences  and  probability  (likelihood).  In  the  context  of 
this  plan,  it  is  the  likelihood  of  consequences  arising from  the  interaction of floods, 
communities and the environment. 

Site  Emergency  Response  Flood  Plan  (not  being  an  SES  Flood  Plan)  is  a 
management  plan  that  demonstrates  the  ability  to  safely  evacuate  persons  and 
include a strategy to move goods above the flood level within the available warning 
time. This Plan must be consistent with any flood evacuation strategy, flood plan or 
similar plan adopted by Council. 

Watercourse means a natural or constructed channel for the flow of water. 

Bankstown Development Control Plan 2015–Part B12 
March 2015 (Amended May 2015) 

69 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
