and  any  other  DCP  (other  than  those  DCPs  referred  to  under  section  1.1.3),  the 
provisions of this Plan shall prevail.

b)  This Plan repeals:

 –

 –

 –

 –

 –

 DCP No - 27 Queen Street Historic Precinct ;

DCP No 109 - Raith;

DCP No 120 - Parking of Commercial Vehicles and Trucks within Residential, 
Scenic Protection and Rural Areas; 

DCP 121 - Woodcrest Heritage Item and Residential Development; and

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) DCP 2014

c) 

If  a  development  application  or  an  application  under  Section  96  or  96AA  of  the 
Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979 to modify a development consent 
has been made before the effective date of the Plan in relation to land to which 
this  Development  Control  Plan  applies  and  the  said  application  has  not  been 
finally  determined  before  the  commencement  of  this  Development  Control  Plan, 
the  application  must  be determined  as  if this  Development  Control Plan had  not 
commenced.

1.1.10 How to use the Plan  

The following steps provide a general guide to using the Plan. If you require any further 
information  or  assistance,  please  contact  Council’s Technical  Support  Officers  on  (02) 
4645 4608.

Step 1

 •

 •

 •

 •

 •
 •

Check  the  permissibility  of  the  development  under  the  relevant  planning 
instrument;

Determine  the  category  of  the  development  by  referring  to  section  1.1.5 
(development categories).

If  the  proposed  development  is  ‘exempt  development’  refer  to  State 
Environmental  Planning  Policy  (Exempt  and  Complying  Development  Codes) 
2008 (E&CDC SEPP)  and Schedule 2 Exempt development under the CLEP.

The E&CDC SEPP is available for view/download from  NSW Legislation web 
site at www.legislation.nsw.gov.au 

If the development is ‘complying development’ refer to the E&CDC SEPP .

If the development is ‘local development’ proceed to Step 2.

Step 2

 •

 •

 •

Refer to Section 1.1.3 Land to which the Plan applies to find out which Volume of 
the Plan applies to your land.

If Volume 2 applies, ensure that the development satisfies the objectives and design 
requirements of the relevant DCP under Volume 2 of the Plan.

If Volume 2 does not apply, proceed to Step 3 below. 

1.1
Introduction

########Page6

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Step 3

1.1
Introduction

 •

Read Part 2 (Requirements applying to all development) and refer to Section 
2.1 (Table 2.1 – Thresholds) to determine which sections are relevant to the 
development.

Step 4 

 •
 •

 •

Read the relevant part of the Plan that applies to the development.

Ensure that the development satisfies the objectives and design requirements 
of each relevant section.

Ensure that all relevant action/management plans are prepared in accordance 
with the specifications within the relevant appendix 

 Important Note:

 – For  definitions  of  terms  used  throughout  Volume  1  of  the  Plan,  refer  to 

Section 1.4 Definitions of Volume 1.

 – The majority  of terms used throughout Volume 1 of the Plan are defined 

under the Dictionary of the CLEP.

 – For  definitions  of  terms  used  throughout  Volume  3  of  the  Plan,  refer  to 

Section 1.2 Definitions of Volume 3.

 – For acronyms and abbreviations used throughout the Plan refer to Section 

1.5 Acronyms of Volume 1.

 – All development proposals must comply with the relevant requirements of 

the Building Code of Australia. 

Engineering Design Guide for Development

The  Plan  is  to  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  Engineering  Design  Guide  for 
Development  (EDGD).  The  EDGD  forms  an  integral  part  of  Council’s  planning 
document set and shall be adhered to in any development proposal. The EDGD 
sets out the minimum standards to be achieved and best practice should always 
be followed. All proposals will be assessed on technical merit.

########Page7

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)1.2
Aims of the 
Plan 

1.2 Aims of the Plan 

    The aims of the Plan are to:

 ■ Ensure that the aims  and objectives of the CLEP  are complemented by the Plan;

 ■ Ensure that the principles of ecological sustainability are incorporated into the 

design, construction and ongoing operation of development;

 ■ Facilitate innovative development of high quality design and construction in the 

City of Campbelltown;

 ■ Ensure that new development maintains or enhances the character and quality of 

the natural and built environment;

 ■ Ensure that new development takes place on land that is capable of supporting 

the proposed development;

 ■ Encourage the creation of safe, secure and liveable environments; 

 ■ Ensure  that  new  development  minimises  the  consumption  of  energy  and  other 
finite resources, to conserve environmental assets and to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions; and

 ■ Provide for the design requirements for a variety of housing  within the City of 

Campbelltown.

1.3 Campbelltown 2025 and the Plan

Council has adopted Campbelltown 2025 – Looking Forward, an overarching town planning 
strategy that informs all Council planning policies. Campbelltown 2025 -Looking Forward 
aims to guide the planning decisions within the City to ensure that sustainable planning 
outcomes can be achieved.
Campbelltown 2025 Looking Forward contains a “vision” for the City, along with six (6) 
strategic directions to facilitate realisation of the vision.
The Plan has been developed to be consistent  with and 
add value to the strategic directions: 

a)  Growing the Regional Centre.

b)  Building a distinctive Campbelltown sense of place. 

c)  Protecting  and  enhancing  the  City’s  environmental 

assets. 

d)  Getting around the City.

e)  Building 

and  maintaining 

quality 

public 

infrastructure. 

f)  Creating education, employment and  entrepreneurial 

activities.

########Page8

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
1.3.1 The Vision

In 2025 we will live in a safe, prosperous, just, and proud 
community  that  enjoys  a  healthy  lifestyle  and  access  to 
high quality amenities.

We are proud to celebrate our diverse culture, creativity, 
and spirit at home with our families and at the places where 
and at the times when we come together as a community.

Prosperity  and  wellbeing  stems  from  a  diverse  economy, 
where  the  skills  of  our  workforce  adapt  to  changes  in 
emerging  technology  and  markets.    New  enterprises  are 
committed  to  the  principles  of  cleaner  production  and 
environmental efficiency.

There  is  an  emphasis  on  self-containment  and  sustainable  community  living.    More 
than  50%  of  the  people  who  live  in  Campbelltown  City  who  are  employed,  work  in 
Campbelltown.    Business  centres  are  a  focus  for  community  amenity  and  interaction, 
not just shopping centres. This has been assisted by the integration of in-centre living 
opportunities within the centres, as part of vibrant mixed use developments.

We  move  around  our  City  and  region  in  safe  and  environmentally  sustainable  ways, 
promoting  public  transport  as  the  primary  means  of  mobility.    Integrated  land  use, 
development  and  transport  planning  minimises  travel  times  and  promotes  more 
convenient access to amenities and employment areas.

The City has grown to be the ‘hub’ of the Greater South Western Sydney Region, where 
access to high level retail, commercial, education, health, community, recreation and 
cultural amenities is assured.  This has been a major conduit for employment development, 
as has been the University of Western Sydney, the TAFE and the Campbelltown Hospital.

Campbelltown 
its  ‘leading 
is  renowned  for 
edge’  built  environmental  character,  setting  it 
apart  from  other  metropolitan  localities.    This 
is  reinforced  by  a  distinctive  landscape  quality 
incorporated  into  the  design  and  treatment  of 
urban environments including the preservation of 
indigenous vegetation and other natural landscape 
features.  Our  cultural  heritage,  indigenous  and 
non-indigenous, is respected.

The  bushland,  the  Scenic  Hills,  rural  landscape 
settings, the rivers, and our unique flora and fauna have been protected in recognition 
of the valuable contribution they make to our quality of life, and the City’s identity.

Scarce natural resources - water, soil and clean air, are now appropriately valued, and we 
use them wisely in the interests of future generations.

The City has achieved much and prospered.   We have maintained our natural environmental 
qualities, yet built a contemporary and striking City image that is renowned across Sydney.  
New economic development opportunities have been secured and our community spirit 
and culture flourishes. The City of Campbelltown looks forward to a sustainable future.

1.3
Campbelltown 
2025 and the 
Plan 

########Page9

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
1.4
Definitions

1.4 Definitions

 Note:

Definitions

 – The majority of terms used under the Plan are defined under the Dictionary 

of the CLEP.

 –  The definitions under this section of the Plan complement the definitions 

under the CLEP. 

Adaptable  dwelling  means  a  dwelling  that  is  designed  to  be  able  to  be  adapted  to 
accommodate,  or  is  intended  to  be  used  permanently  for  seniors  or  people  with  a 
disability.

Adjoining land means:

 – land that is adjacent to an allotment not in the same ownership; or

 – land that is directly opposite another allotment; or

 – land that is separated from another allotment only by a road, pathway, driveway, 

battle-axe handle, or the like. 

Amenity  means  those  qualities  and  characteristics  of  a  site  and  its  neighbouring  area 
that contribute to the comfort and pleasantness of the local environment. 

Asset protection zone means a buffer between development and bushfire hazards. 

Average Recurrence Interval (ARI) means the average period between the recurrence of 
a storm event of a given rainfall intensity.

Battle-axe allotment means an allotment that does not have direct frontage to a public 
road other than via a driveway (handle).

Building  Sustainability  Index  (BASIX)  means  a  web-based  planning  tool  designed  to 
assess the potential performance of new development against a range of sustainability 
indices including landscape, stormwater, water, thermal comfort and energy.

Burra  Charter  (The  Australia  ICOMOS  Charter  for  Places  of  Cultural  Significance) 
means a guide for the conservation and management of places of cultural significance 
and is based on the knowledge and experience of Australian ICOMOS members (ICOMOS 
– International Council on Monuments and Sites).

Bushfire prone land means land which has been identified as bushfire prone land on the 
Campbelltown  Bushfire  Prone  Lands  Map  as  certified  by  the  Commissioner  of  the  NSW 
Rural Fire Service.

Bush rock means natural surface deposits of rock from rock outcrops or from areas of 
native vegetation. Rocks may be loose rocks on rock surfaces or on the soil surface, or may 
have been removed from rock outcrops by excavation or blasting. In the Campbelltown 
area, most bushrock is derived from either sandstone or shale formations. The removal of 
bushrock is listed as a key threatening process under state threatened species legislation.

Communal open space means the open space/landscaped area of a development used 
or intended for use for recreation and relaxation purposes by residents or occupants and 
that is under the control of an owner corporation or similar organisation, which is not for 

########Page10

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)the exclusive use of individual residents or occupants of any single dwelling. It does not 
include driveways, visitor parking spaces or private open space.

Conventional  allotment  means  the  creation  of  a Torrens Title    allotment  in  which  no 
dwellings are proposed as part of the development application.

1.4
Definitions

Conservation  management  plan  means  a  document  prepared  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements of the NSW Heritage Office which establishes the heritage significance of 
an  item,  place  or  heritage  conservation  area  and  identifies  conservation  policies  and 
management mechanisms that are appropriate to enable that significance to be retained. 

Council Strategic Planning Document (CSPD) means the CLEP, the Plan, S94 Development 
Contribution Plan, S94A Development Contribution Plan, Planning Agreement and Plans 
of Managment prepared by, or on behalf of Council.

Crown means the portion of the tree consisting of branches and leaves and any part of 
the trunk from which branches arise. 

Crown  maintenance  pruning  means  pruning  that  does  not  reduce  the  volume  of  the 
crown and retains the structure and size of the tree. It comprises deadwooding, crown 
thinning, and formative pruning. 

Crown modification pruning means pruning that changes the form and habit of the tree. 

Crown  thinning  means  selective  removal  of  small  branches  (less  than  40  mm  in 
circumference) that does not alter the overall size of the tree by more than 5%. 

Dangerous tree means a tree that imposes a  threat to a property or humans and/or:

 –

 –

has  substantial  stem  damage  (e.g.  more  than  50  percent  cross-section 
area stem damage);

is  in  extreme  declining  health  or  unstable  (e.g.  more  than  50  percent 
lateral roots damaged/unsound); 

 –

has a split trunk.

Dead  tree  means  a  tree  that  is  no  longer  capable  of  performing  any  of  the  following 
processes:

 –

Photosynthesis  via  its  foliage  crown  (as  indicated  by  the  presence  of 
moist, green or other coloured leaves);

 – Osmosis (the ability of the root system to take up water);

 – Turgidity (the ability of the plant to hold moisture in its cells);

 –

Epicormic shoots (the production of new shoots as a response to stress, 
generated from buds under the bark or from a lignotuber – at ground or 
underground stem).

Deadwooding means the removal of dead branches. 

Deep soil planting means the area of land within the site that has at least 3 metres of 
soil directly below the whole surface of the area.

Domestic outbuilding means a building or structure used for purposes ancillary to the 
main dwelling(s) on an allotment and includes awnings, pergolas, gazebos, garden sheds,  
garages, carports and the like, but does not include a swimming pool or a dwelling.

########Page11

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Dormer  means  a  gabled  extension  built  out  from  a  sloping  roof  to  accommodate  a 
vertical window.

Dying Tree means a tree that has declined to a point that no remedial action will prevent 
death.

Environmental  weed  means  a  plant  that  adversely  affects  the  integrity,  conservation 
status,  habitat  characteristics  and  aesthetic  values  of  natural  eco-systems  (including 
native and exotic species).

Flood  Planning  Level    is  the  100  year  Average  Recurrence  Interval  flood  level  plus 
freeboard in accordance with Table 4.1 of Council’s Engineering Design for Development.

Flowpath means the overland route taken by any concentration of, or significant sheet 
flow of stormwater on its way to any drain or stormwater  system, creek, river or  flood 
plain in a storm. 

Formative Pruning means pruning of young and establishing trees with the general aims 
of directing plant growth and/or developing a sound structure. 

Freeboard  means  a  factor  of  safety  used  in  relation  to  the  setting  of  floor  levels.    It 
makes allowance for wave action, localised hydraulic behaviour and stormwater system 
blockages.

Habitat  resources  means  specific  ecosystem  elements  that  provide  valuable  foraging 
substrates and shelter sites that are important to the survival of a range of species and  
include hollow-bearing trees, hollow logs and bush rock.

Habitable room means a room used for normal domestic activities and includes a bedroom, 
living  room,  lounge  room,  music  room,  television  room,  rumpus  room,  sewing  room, 
study, play room, family room, sunroom and the like. It excludes a garage, bathroom, 
laundry, water closet, pantry, walk in wardrobe, lobby, clothes drying room, and other 
spaces of a specialised nature that are not occupied frequently or for extended periods.

Hollow-bearing tree means trees where cavities have formed in the trunk or branches of 
a live or dead tree to provide wildlife with foraging, shelter, roosting and nesting habitat. 

Hollow logs means terrestrial woody habitat that includes the accumulation of senescent 
trees, hollow-forming tree limbs and branches on the ground.

Injury and wilful destruction of vegetation means damage to vegetation and includes:

 –

 –

Lopping and topping;

Poisoning;

 – Cutting, tearing, snapping and breaking of branches and roots that is not 
carried  out  in  accordance  with  acceptable  agricultural  practices  or  is 
done for invalid reasons such as vandalism;

 – Ring barking, scarring the bark when operating machinery, fixing objects 
(eg. signs) by nails, stables or wire, using tree climbing spikes in healthy 
trees  or  fastening  materials  that  circle  and  significantly  restrict  the 
normal vascular function of the trunk or branches or making a blaze on a 
tree as a marker point;

 – Damaging  the  vegetation’s  root  zone  by  compaction  or  excavation, 

1.4
Definitions

########Page12

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)stripping of top soils, burial, or the alteration of natural ground level or 
the water table which causes damage to the vegetation or any part of 
the vegetation.

1.4
Definitions

 –

‘Under scrubbing’, unless carried out by hand tools.

Lop  or  Lopping  means  cutting  between  branch  unions  or  at  internodes  on  growing 
vegetation with the final cut leaving a stub.

Noxious weed means a weed declared by an order under the Noxious Weeds Act 1993. 

On-site service facilities means facilities that are required for the purposes providing 
electricity, sewerage, communication and the like. This includes aerials, satellite dishes 
cable broadband and other service media.

Other Vegetation means any plant life not defined by this Part as a tree and includes any 
sapling, shrub, scrub, understorey plants, ground cover (being any type of herbaceous 
vegetation) and plants occurring in a wetland that:

 –

 –

 –

 –

Provides  habitat  or  likely  habitat  for  threatened  species,  populations  and 
endangered  ecological  communities  as  defined  within  the  Threatened  Species 
Conservation Act; or

Is located within a riparian zone or within 40 metres of the top bank of a creek, 
river, watercourse, wetland, stream or other aquatic habitat;

Is  located  within  a  wildlife  corridor  as  delineated  within  Council’s  Biodiversity 
Strategy;

Is located within Koala habitat as delineated within Council’s draft Koala Plan of 
Management; is located on land owned by Council or under its care, control and 
management;and

 –

Forms part of native vegetation.

Owner means:

 – The person or persons listed on Council’s rates file to be the owner of the land at 

the date of notification; or

 – The owners corporation in the case of land that is within a strata scheme under 
the Strata Titles Act, 1973, or a Leasehold strata scheme under the Strata Titles 
(Leasehold) Act, 1986; or

 – The Association in the case of land that is a community precinct or neighbourhood 
parcel within the meaning of the Community Land Development Act, 1989.

Parenting Facility means a room which is equipped with facilities for feeding (including 
breast feeding) and caring of babies/infants.

Place of Aboriginal heritage significance means a place that has the physical remains of 
pre-European occupation by, or is of contemporary significance to, the Aboriginal people. 

Primary  street  means  the  area  between  the  front  elevation  of  the  building/structure 
and the road to which it is orientated.

Privacy screen means:

i)  a  structure  that  provides  a  screen  or  visual  barrier  between  a  window  of  a 

########Page13

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)1.4
Definitions

habitable room or an outdoor area on a lot and an adjoining lot that:

 – (i) has no individual opening more than 30mm wide, and

 – (ii) has a total area of all openings that is no more than 30% of the surface area 

of the screen or barrier, or

ii)  a window, the whole of which has translucent glass and is fixed and not able to 

be opened.

Prostitution means the provision of a sexual act or sexual service in return for payment 
or reward.

Pruning means any pruning that is not crown maintenance  pruning and include Crown 
Modification Pruning as defined by AS 4373-(as amended). 

Public consultation means the public exhibition and/or public notification of CSPDs or 
development applications. 

Public domain means an area that is adjacent to the development site, which is under 
the care, control and/or ownership of a public authority.

Public exhibition means a formal public showing of information (whether by electronic 
means or displays of hard copies) that is in Council’s opinion relevant to a draft Council 
Strategic  Planning  Document  or  a  development  application    for  a  period  of  time  and 
manner as prescribed under relevant sections of Part 9 of the Plan and  any other relevant 
planning legislation. 

Public  notification  means  notifying  property  owners  in  writing  of  Councils  Strategic 
Planning Documents and development applications. 

Public submission means a letter, petition, email, fax or similar written representation 
received  from  individuals  or  groups  of  people  regarding  Councils  Strategic  Planning 
Documents or development applications.  

Remove,  Removal  and  Cutting  Down  means  to  dismantle  vegetation  for  example  by 
chainsaw, or to separate the vegetation from the ground where it is growing or dislodging 
it with earth-moving equipment in order to kill the vegetation, including its branches, 
foliage,  trunk,  stump  and  root  system  will  not  regrow.   This  includes  the  poisoning  of 
the stump and/or roots and/or taking away, or grinding or burning out of its remains to 
prevent growth.

Secondary  street    means  the  area  between  the  side  and/or  rear  elevation/s  of  the 
building/structure and any additional road/s to which it adjoins.

Solar collectors means any building element or appliance specifically designed to capture 
or collect the suns rays for the benefit of the occupants {e.g. windows including clerestory 
(or highlight) windows, solar hot water collector panels, photovoltaic (solar-electricity) 
cells/panels and the like}.

Suitably  qualified  person  means  a  person  who  through  suitable  education  and  or 
experience, accreditation (trade or professional) and knowledge may be reasonably relied 
upon by Council to provide advice within an area of expertise related to the relevant task.

Treatment train means a sequential series of treatment processes that are designed to 
improve stormwater quality from its source to the point where it is released to a natural 
watercourse.

########Page14

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Threatened species, population or ecological community  means a species, population 
or ecological community that is listed under the NSW Threatened Species Conservation 
Act 1995, Fisheries Management Act  1994 or the Commonwealth Environment Protection 
Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999.

1.4
Definitions

Tree means a perennial plant with at least one self supporting stem which,

i)  has a height of more than three (3) metres, or

ii)  has an outside circumference of at least 500mm at ground level; or

iii) has a branch and foliage crown spread of at least 4 metres.

Vegetation means a tree or other vegetation.

Virgin Excavated Natural Material (VENM) means material (such as clay, gravel, sand, 
soil,  and  rock)  that  does  not  contain  any  other  type  of  waste  and  which  has  been 
excavated  from  areas  of  land  that  are  not  contaminated  with  human-made  chemicals 
as a result of industrial, commercial, mining or agricultural activities and which do not 
contain sulphuric ores or soils.

Waste Management Plan (WMP) means a plan demonstrating the details of how waste 
will  be  managed  during  the  demolition,  construction  and  ongoing  operations  of  a 
development.

Water  Sensitive  Urban  Design  (WSUD)  seeks  to  ensure  that  development  is  carefully 
designed, constructed and maintained so as to minimise impacts on the natural water 
cycle. This can be achieved through a design approach that strives to maintain or replicate 
the natural watercycle  through an incremental,  “treatment  train” approach, one that 
optimises the use of rainwater on site while minimising the amount of water transported 
from the catchment.

Wheel Out-Wheel Back means a service involving Council’s domestic waste collection 
contractor entering a  property, collecting and emptying the 240 litre waste  bins from 
storage  areas  and  returning  the  bins  to  the  bin  storage  area  from  where  they  were 
collected.

Zone  of  influence  means  the  area  likely  to  be  influenced  by  building  loads,  and  is  a 
factor of the structure of the ground on which the building is to be located.

########Page15

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)1.5
Acronyms

1.5. Acronyms

APZ 

ARI

BASIX

BCA

CLEP 

CSPD

Asset Protection Zone

Average Recurrence Interval

Building Sustainability Index 

Building Code of Australia

Campbelltown Local Environmental Plan 2015

Council Strategic Planning Document

CPTED 

Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design

DA 

DCP   

Development Application

Development Control Plan

E&CDC 

State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying 

Development Codes) 2008

Engineering Design Guide for Development

Ecologically Sustainable Development

EDGD

ESD

EP&A Act 

Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979

EP&A Reg 

Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2000

EPI 

FSR 

GFA

IDO 

LEP 

Environmental Planning Instrument

Floor Space Ratio

Gross Floor Area

Interim Development Order

Local Environmental Plan

LG Act

Local Government Act 1993

LGA

m

OEH

PoM  

RFDC 

RMS 

SEPP

sqm

WMP

Local Government Area 

Metre

Office of Environment and Heritage

Plan of Management

Residential Flat Design Code

Roads and Maritime Services ( previously RTA) 

State Environmental Planning Policy

Square metre 

Waste Management Plan

VENM

Virgin Excavated Natural Material

########Page16

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Part 2 
Requirements 
Applying to 
all Types of 
Development

2.1
Application

2.1 Application

This Part contains general design requirements for development.

All development is required to conform to all relevant requirements contained in this 
Part.  Table  2.1  below  demonstrates  which  sections  are  relevant  to  the  development 
having  regard  to  the  possible  environmental  impacts  of  the  development  by  listing 
thresholds for each section. The table asks specific questions about the development and 
where the answer to a question is “Yes”, the development shall consider the nominated 
section of the Plan. 

Note:  EDGD  stands  for  Engineering  Design  Guide  for  Development  which  is  available 
from Council’s website at www.campbelltown.nsw.gov.au.

Note:  The  CLEP  provides  aims,  objectives  and  requirements  for  a  number  of  matters 
covered under this part including ( but not limited to) heritage, salinity and flooding. 

Table 2.1 Thresholds 

Section

Site Analysis

Question

Will the development involve the construction of 
a building or the Torrens title subdivision of land?

Threshold

If yes,
 refer to 
2.2

Views and Vistas

Will the development involve the construction of 
a building or the Torrens title subdivision of land?

If yes, 
refer to 2.3

Sustainable 

Building Design 

Landscaping

Weed 
Management

Will the development involve the construction of 
a building?

Will the development involve the construction of 
a building or the Torrens title subdivision of land?

If yes,
 refer to 
2.4

If yes,
 refer to 
2.5

Is the site occupied by any noxious weeds (as 
listed in Appendix 3)?

If yes, 
refer to 2.6

Will the development involve the construction of 
a building within land zoned for rural, waterway 
or environmental protection purposes?

Erosion and 
Sediment Control

Will the development involve:
a)  Disturbance of soil on the site?

b)  Any  potential  for  the  disturbance  of  soil  on 

the site?

Cut and Fill

Will the development involve:

a)  Any excavation of the site?

b)  Any filling of the site?

Is  the  proposed  development  below  or  at  flood 
planning level?

Will the development involve the construction of 
a building?

Fill and Floor 
Levels

If yes,
refer to 2.7
and the 
EDGD

If yes, 
refer to 2.8
and the 
EDGD

If yes,
refer to 
2.8 and the 
EDGD 

########Page18

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Section

Demolition

Question

Will the development involve any demolition?

Water Cycle 
Management

Will  the  development 
following:

involve  any  of  the 

2.1
Application

Threshold

If yes, 
refer to 2.9 

If yes,
 refer to 
2.10 and 
the EDGD 

a)  A site that is below the flood planning level?

b)  A  site  that  is  within  40  metres  of  a  water 

course? 

c)  drains directly to a water course?

d)  is  inundated  by  the  predicted  100  year  ARI 

event; or

e)  Work  that  is  of  a  large  residential  scale  (> 
2000sqm site area) or any new commercial/
industrial building?

Will the development involve the construction of 
a building or the Torrens title subdivision of land?

Stormwater

Water Demand 
Management

Will the development involve the construction of 
a building or the Torrens title subdivision of land?

Heritage

Will the development involve:

a)  A site occupied by a heritage item?

b)  A site located near a heritage item?

c)  A site located within a heritage conservation 

area?

d)  An area located within an aboriginal place of 

heritage significance?

e)  an area that may  have aboriginal objects?

Retaining Walls 

Will the development involve:

a)  The construction of a retaining wall?

b)  The renovation of a retaining wall?

Security

Will the development involve the construction of 
a building?

If yes, 
refer to 
2.10 and 
the EDGD 

If yes,
 refer to 
2.10

If yes,
refer to 
2.11

If yes,
 refer to 
2.12 and 
the EDGD 

If yes,
 refer to 
2.13 and 
the EDGD 

########Page19

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.1
Application

Section

Risk Management 
- Contaminated 
Land

Risk Management 
- Salinity

Risk Management 
- Bushfire

Question

Will the development involve:
a)  Land 

that  has 

the  potential 

contaminated?

Threshold

If yes, 
refer to  
2.14

to  be 

b)  Land  that  has  been  identified  as  being 

contaminated?

Will the development involve the construction of 
a building?

Will the development involve:

a)  Land identified as bushfire prone land on the 
Campbelltown Bushfire Prone Land Maps?

b)  Any  activities  in  areas  occupied  by  or 

adjoining areas of native vegetation?

Risk Management 
- Mine Subsidence 

Will the development involve the construction 
of a building on a site located within South 
Campbelltown Mine subsidence district, or Appin  
Mine subsidence District?

Risk Management 
- Public Health

Will the development involve the provision of 
cooling towers?

Waste 
Management 

Will the development involve the construction of 
a building?
Will the development involve the change of use 
of a building?

If yes,
refer to 
2.14.2

If yes,
refer to 
2.14.3

If yes, 
refer to 
2.14.4
and the 
EDGD 

if yes, 
refer to 
2.14.5

If yes
refer to 
2.15
and the 
EDGD

Provision of 
Services 

Will the development involve land that is not 
currently serviced by water, electricity and/or 
waste water sewage services?

If yes refer 
to  2.16 

Work On, Over  or 
Near Public Land  

Will the development involve work on, over or 
near public land?

If yes refer 
to 2.17 

Land  adjacent  to 
Water  NSW  Upper 
Canal

Development near 
or  on  electricity 
easements

Land  adjacent  to 
or  affected  by  a 
gas easement

Will the development involve work near Water 
NSW Upper Canal?

If yes refer 
to 2.18

Will the development involve work on, over or 
near electricity easements?

If yes refer 
to 2.19

Will the development involve work on, over or 
near gas easement?

If yes refer 
to 2.20

########Page20

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.2 Site Analysis 

The  site  analysis  is  the  foundation  of  good  design  and  is  used  as  an  initial  source  of 
information  upon  which  to  base  the  design  and  configuration  of  development  taking 
account of all environmental constraints and opportunities, as they relate to the unique 
features of the site and nearby land.

2.2
Site Analysis

Objectives: 

 ■ Identify the constraints and opportunities for the development of the site.

 ■ Provide an understanding of how the development relates to the site.

 ■ Identify the capability and suitability of the site for development.

Design Requirements 

a)  A Site Analysis Plan shall be lodged with 
the  development  application  for  all 
development involving the construction 
of  a  building  and  the  Torrens  title 
subdivision  of  land.  The  scope  of  the 
site  analysis  will  depend  on  the  scale 
and  nature  of  the  development  and 
shall address:

i)  contours, slope and north point; 

ii)  existing 

landscaping 

and 

vegetation;

iii)  existing buildings and structures;

iv)  location  of  windows  and  other 
openings on adjoining buildings;

v)  roads,  access  points,  parking,  and 
traffic  management  devices  and 
the like;

vi)  linkages;  open  space  networks, 
pedestrian/cycle  paths  and  the 
like;

vii) easements, services, existing 
infrastructure and utilities;

viii) hydraulic features, drainage 

lines, water features, drainage 
constraints, and the like;

ix)  natural  hazards  (e.g.  flooding, 

bushfire);

x)  solar  orientation,  overshadowing, 

Figure 2.2.1 - Example of a site analysis 
plan.

########Page21

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.2
Site Analysis

prevailing winds;

xi)  views and vistas to, from and within 

the site; 

xii) a streetscape analysis; 

xiii) special  environmental 
threatened 
as 

features 
such 
species  
habitat,  endangered  ecological 
communities and wetlands; 

xiv) items and relics of  and/or aboriginal 
place of heritage significance ; and

xv)  any 

identified 

road  widening 

applying to the subject land.

########Page22

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.3 Views and Vistas

Objectives: 

 ■ Protect the scenic value of Campbelltown’s natural and built environment. 

 ■ Protect significant views and vistas from and to public places.

2.3
Views and 
Vistas

Design Requirements

a)  Development 

appropriately 
shall 
respond  to  Campbelltown’s  important 
views  and  vistas  to  and  from  public 
places.  These  include  views  and  vistas 
to and from:

i) 

the Scenic Hills;

ii)  rural/semi rural landscape areas;

iii)  the  Georges  and  Nepean  River 

corridors;

iv)  areas  of  significant  public  open 
space (formal and informal); and

v)  heritage items.

b)  District  views  and  existing  significant 
view  corridors  as  viewed  to  and  from 
public places shall be protected.

c)  The  opportunity  to  create  new  view/
vista corridors shall be taken wherever 
possible and appropriate.

Figure  2.3.1  -  Example  of  a 
significant view corridor. 

Note: 

In  certain  circumstances  Council 
may  require  the  preparation  of 
a  visual  analysis  study  as  part  of 
a  development  application  or  a 
planning proposal.

########Page23

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
2.4

Sustainable 
Building
Design 

2.4 Sustainable Building Design 

Objectives: 

 ■ Encourage building design and siting to reduce energy consumption.

 ■ Encourage the use of solar power in building design. 

 ■ Encourage the use of  water recycling.

 ■ Ensure that residential buildings meet the requirements of BASIX.

2.4.1 Rain Water Tanks

a) 

to 

In  addition 
satisfying  BASIX, 
residential development is encouraged 
to  provide    a  rain  water  tank  for  new 
buildings.

b)  A rain water tank shall be provided for 
all new buildings containing a roof area 
greater than 100sqm for all development 
not specified by BASIX. The rain water 
tank shall have a minimum capacity in 
accordance with Table 2.4.1. 

c)  All 

rainwater 

shall  comply 
tanks 
with  AS3500  (as  amended)  -  National 
Plumbing and Drainage Code Guidelines 
for Plumbing Associated with Rainwater 
Tanks  in  Urban  Areas  and  Sydney 
Water’s Guideline for Rainwater Tanks 
on Residential Properties.

d)  The rainwater tank incorporated in new 
commercial and industrial development 
exceeding 5,000sqm shall be connected 
to  the  plumbing  in  the  building  to 
provide water for toilets.

Figure  2.4.1  -  An  example  of  a  
domestic rainwater tank.

e)  Where 

it 

is 

intended 

the 
development be strata title subdivided, 
the tank shall be sited in a location to 
be common property.

that 

f)  Above  ground  water  tanks  shall  be 
located behind the primary or secondary 
building line.

Figure  2.4.2  -  Solar  hot  water 
panels facing north.

2.4.2 Solar Hot Water 

a)  All  new  buildings  are  encouraged  to 
provide  a solar hot water system.

########Page24

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.4

Sustainable 
Building
Design 

b)  Where the site is connected to the gas main, 
the  solar  hot  water  system  is  encouraged  to 
be gas boosted.

2.4.3 Natural Ventilation

a)  The  design  of  new  buildings  shall  be 
encouraged  to  maximise  opportunities  for 
cross  flow  ventilation,  where  practical,  thus 
minimising the need for air conditioning.

2.4.4 Light Pollution 

a)  Outdoor lighting shall be  designed to minimise 
pollution  from  the  unnecessary  dispersion 
of  light  into  the  night  sky  and  neighbouring 
properties. 

2.4.5 BASIX

The  Building  Sustainability  Index  (BASIX)  is  an 
interactive, internet-based planning tool designed 
to assess the potential performance of residential 
development  against  a  range  of  sustainability 
indices.  The  focus  of  BASIX  is  on  the  key  indices 
of  water  and  energy,  and  the  related  indices  of 
landscape,  stormwater  and  thermal  comfort, 
reflecting  the  NSW  Government’s  decision  to 
establish  water  consumption  and  greenhouse  gas 
emission  reduction  targets  for  all  new  dwellings 
built in NSW.

For  Development  standards  requirements  for  a 
BASIX certificate refer to  www.basix.nsw.gov.au

Table 2.4.1 Rainwater Tank Capacity

Figure  2.4.3  -  An  example  of  a 
building that has been designed to 
maximise cross flow ventilation .

Note: 

for 

is  not 
A  BASIX  Certificate 
required 
relocatable 
homes.  However,  a  BASIX 
Certificate  would  be  required 
as  part  of  a  development 
complying 
application 
(or 
certificate 
development 
application)  to  install  a  flat-
pack kit. For more information 
on  this  matter,  refer  to    the 
Department  of  Planning  and 
Environment website at:

www.planning.nsw.gov.au

Roof Area 

101 m²  to 200 m² 

201 m² to 1,000 m²

1,001 m² to 5,000 m²

5,001 m² to 10,000 m²

10,001 m² to 20,000 m²

above 20,000 m²

Capacity of Rainwater Tank 

3,000L

5,000L

10,000L

20,000L

50,000L

100,000L

########Page25

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.5
Landscaping

2.5 Landscaping

Objectives: 

 ■ Maintain and rehabilitate the natural environment and assist in the conservation 

of Campbelltown’s landscape character.

 ■ Provide landscaping that complements the scale of development.

 ■ Enhance the appearance of development.

Design Requirements

a)  Landscape  design  shall  enhance  the 
visual  character  of  the  development 
and  complement  the  design/use  of 
spaces within and adjacent to the site.

b)  Landscape  design  shall  retain  and 
enhance  the  existing  native  flora  and 
fauna characteristics of a site wherever 
possible.

c)  Landscape  design  shall  add  value 
to  the  quality  and  character  of  the 
streetscape.

d)  A  Landscape  Concept  Plan  is  required 
to  be  submitted  with  a  development 
application for:

i)   Semi-detached dwellings;

ii)  dual occupancies;

iii) attached dwellings;

iv)   multi dwelling housing;

v)   residential flat buildings;

vi)   mixed use development;

vii) boarding houses;

viii) shop top housing;

ix) child care centres;

x)  places of Worship;

xi)  commercial development;

xii) industrial development;and

xiii) any  other  development  that  in  the 
opinion  of  Council  a  landscape  plan 

Figure  2.5.1  –  Example  of  appropriate 
landscape treatment within the primary 
building setback.

Note: 
An  invasive  species  is  a  species 
occurring,  as  a  result  of  human 
activities,  beyond  its  accepted 
normal  distribution  and  which 
threatens  valued  environmental, 
social 
or 
agricultural 
resources by the damage it causes.

other 

Note: 
For  information  on  native  species 
refer to Council’s Native Gardening 
Guide  and    Tree  Planting  Guide 
which are available at:

www.campbelltown.nsw.gov.au  

########Page26

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.6
Weed 
Management

is required. 

e)  The  Landscape  Concept  Plan  shall  illustrate 
mature height, spread of species, trees to be 
removed/retained and shall be prepared by a 
suitably qualified person.

f)  Landscaping shall maximise the use of locally 
indigenous  and  other  drought  tolerant  native 
plants and avoid the use of invasive species. 

2.6 Weed Management

Objectives: 

 ■ Ensure  that  weeds  within  Campbelltown  LGA  are  managed  in  an  ecologically 

sustainable manner.

a)  A  Weed  Management  Plan  shall  be 
submitted with any DA within land zoned 
for  rural,  environmental  protection  or 
waterways purposes that:

i) 

is  proposed  on  site  of  two  (2)  or 
more  hectares in area; or 

ii)  have  a  significant  infestation  of 
noxious  or  environmental  weeds 
present

iii)  is  within  100  metres  of  a 

watercourse;

b)  Despite  Clause  2.6  a)  above,  a  weed 
management  plan  shall  be  prepared 
and  submitted  as  part  of  a  DA  where  
Council  is  of  the  opinion  that  such  a 
plan is needed.  

Note  :  Refer  to Appendix  2  of  Volume  One 
the  Plan  for  the  requirements  of  a  Weed 
Management Plan.

Note  :  Refer  to  Appendix  3  of  the  Volume 
One of the Plan for a list of Noxious Weeds 
within the Campbelltown Local Government 
Area.

-  Noxious  and 
Figure  2.6.1 
Control 
Environmental  Weed 
Handbook (available for download 
f r o m : w w w. d p i . n s w. g o v. a u /
agriculture/pests-weeds/weeds/
publications/noxious-enviro-
weed-control

########Page27

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
2.7
Erosion and 
Sediment 
Control

2.7 Erosion and Sediment Control

Objective:

 ■ Ensure  that  any  potential  loss  of  soil  from  a  site  and/or  into  the  stormwater 

system is prevented by means of:

 •
 •

appropriate planning prior to the start of construction works; and

the effective interception, diversion and control of stormwater within 
the site.

Design Requirements

Figure 2.7.1 - Example of a stabilised, 
all weather access point.

construction 

development 

a)  An  Erosion  and  Sediment  Control  Plan 
(ESCP) shall be prepared and submitted 
application 
with 
a 
proposing 
and/or 
involving  the  disturbance 
activities 
of  the  land  surface.  For  requirements 
relating to the preparation of an ESCP, 
refer  to  Appendix  5  of  Volume  1  and 
Council’s Engineering Design Guide for 
Development  available  from  Council’s 
website  at  www.campbelltown.nsw.
gov.au .

b)  Site  activities  shall  be  planned  and 

managed to minimise soil disturbance.

c)  Catch drains or diversion banks shall be 
designed and constructed to divert water 
around any area of soil disturbance.

d)  All stockpiles shall be located within the 
sediment control zone and shall not be 
located within an overland flow path.

########Page28

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
2.8 Cut, Fill and Floor Levels

Objectives: 

2.8
Cut, Fill and 
Floor Levels

 ■ Minimise the extent of earthworks associated with development.

 ■ Ensure  that  development  appropriately  responds  to  site  conditions  with   
proper consideration given to land capability and privacy/amenity of adjoining 
properties.

 ■ Ensure that excavation is minimised and properly retained.

 ■ Ensure  that  adequate  freeboard  is  provided  to  protect  development  from 

overland flows and flooding.

2.8.1 Cut and Fill

Design Requirements

a)  A Cut and Fill Management Plan (CFMP) 
shall be submitted with a development 
application  where  the  development 
incorporates cut and/or fill operations.  

Note:  For  the  requirements  relating  to  a 
CFMP refer to Appendix 6.

b)  For  any  dwellings    within  residential 
zones,  the  maximum  level  of  cut  shall 
not exceed 1.0 metre below the ground 
level (existing) and the maximum level 
of fill shall not exceed 1.0 metre above 
ground level (existing), when measured 
at any corner of the building platform.

c)  Any  excavation  within  the  zone  of 
influence of any other structure requires 
a  ‘dilapidation  report’  (prepared  by  a 
suitably qualified person) demonstrating 
that  adequate  ameliorative  measures 
are  to  be  implemented  to  protect  the 
integrity of any structure.

d)  Development 

incorporating  any  cut 
or    fill  shall  comply  with  the  following 
requirements:

i)  minimum  cross  fall  of  1%  to  any 

adjoining waterway; and

ii)  batters to be no steeper than 2H:1V 
(‘H’ stands for the term ‘horizontal 
distance’  and  ‘V’  stands  for  the 

Natural Ground
Level

Building Platform

Max. 1.0 metre Fill

Max. 1.0 metre Cut

Figure 2.8.1 – Cross section of cut 
and fill on a residential site.

Note:

For  additional 
information 
and  requirements  on  how 
to  address  salinity,  refer  to 
Salinity  Section  of  Council’s 
Engineering  Design  Guide  for 
Development  (available  from 
Council’s  website  at  www.
campbelltown.nsw.gov.au)

########Page29

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.8
Cut, Fill and 
Floor Levels

term ‘Vertical distance’;

iii)  batters to be no steeper than 6H:1V 

for public areas.

Note: 

e)  All fill shall be ‘Virgin Excavated Natural 

Material’ (VENM). 

f)  No fill shall be deposited in the vicinity 

of native vegetation.

2.8.2 Surface Water and Floor Levels

Design Requirements

a)  Development 

shall  not  occur  on 
land    that  is  affected  by  the  100-year 
ARI  event  unless  the  development  is 
consistent  with  the  NSW  Floodplain 
Development Manual.

b)  All  development  on  land  affected  by 
stormwater  flow  from  main  stream, 
local  creek  or  over  land  flow  shall 
satisfy  the  relevant  fill  and  floor  level 
requirements as specified in Table 2.8.1.

c)  All  development  shall  have  a  ground 
surface level, at or above  a minimum, 
equal 
‘average 
the  100-year 
recurrence interval’ (ARI) flood level.

to 

d)  For  development  on  land  not  affected 
by an overland flow path the minimum 
height of the slab above finished ground 
level shall be 150 mm, except in sandy, 
well-drained areas where the minimum 
height  shall  be  100mm.  These  heights 
can  be  reduced  locally  to  50mm  near 
adjoining  paved  areas  that  slope  away 
from  the  building  in  accordance  with 
AS 2870 (Residential Slabs and Footings 
Construction). 

e)  Buildings 

involving 

basements, 
hospitals,  seniors  living  dwellings  and 
educational  establishment  with  more 
than  50  students  shall  comply  with 
the  provisions  of  Council’s  Engineering 
Design Guide for Development available 
from  Council’s  website  at  www.
campbelltown.nsw.gov.au. 

All filling works shall satisfy Council’s 
Specification  for  Construction  of 
Subdivision  Roads  and  Drainage 
Works  and AS  3798  Guidelines  for 
Earthworks  for  Commercial  and 
Residential  Development 
(refer 
to  Council’s  Engineering  Design 
Guide  for  Development  available 
from  Council’s  website  at  www.
campbelltown.nsw.gov.au. 

Figure 2.8.2 – Proposed building
platform.

Note: 

The  minimum  heights  refer  to 
under  Clause  2.8.2  d)  are  to  the 
top  of  the  finished  ground  level 
after  completion  of  paving  and 
similar.

Note: 

The  development  shall  satisfy 
Sydney  Water’s  requirements  for 
150mm clearance between finished 
floor  level  and  the  surface  of  the 
sewer surcharge gully.

f)  Any  solid  fence  constructed  across  an 

########Page30

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
overland flow path shall be a minimum 
100mm above the finished surface level 
of the overland flow path. 

g)  Where  underground  car  parking 

is 
proposed,  measures  shall  be  taken 
in  design  and  construction  to  ensure 
escape  routes,  pump  out  drainage 
systems (which include backup systems) 
service  utilities 
and 
location  of 
(including  power,  phone, 
lifts)  are 
appropriately located in relation to the 
100 year ARI event, in accordance with 
Section 4.13.8 of Council’s Engineering 
Design Guide for Development available 
from  Council’s  website  at  www.
campbelltown.nsw.gov.au. 

Table 2.8.1 Floor Level Requirements

Development Criteria

2.8
Cut, Fill and 
Floor Levels

Note: 

Any  allotments  located  on  land 
that  has  been  filled,  shall  be 
burdened  by  an  88B  restriction 
regarding  that  fill  and  shall  be 
noted  on  the  respective  Section 
149 certificate. 

Where the 
depth of flow 
is:

Minimum Freeboard above 
the predicted 100yr ARI 
Flood level

Floor  Level  for  any  dwelling  room*  including  all 
commercial or industrial areas

Floor  Level  in  relation  to  any  creek  or  major 
stormwater  line  including  detention  basins  for  any 
dwelling room# including all commercial or industrial 
areas 

Garage or shed Floor Level**

< 300mm

> 300mm

Any depth

<300mm

>300mm

300mm

500mm

500mm

100mm

300mm

Underside of solid fencing where overland flow is to 
be accommodated

Any depth

100mm (min)

* For the purpose of Clause 2.8.2 b) ‘a dwelling room’ is any room within or attached to a 
dwelling excluding a garage or shed. 

** Garages and sheds with floor levels set to these standards will not be permitted to be 
converted to dwelling rooms at any time in the future.

########Page31

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.9
Demolition

2.9 Demolition

Objectives: 

 ■ Ensure that demolition is carried out in accordance with the relevant legislation 

and guidelines.

 ■ Ensure that demolition does not have an adverse impact on the environment, 
buildings, footpaths and roadways or upon the safety, health and well being of 
the community.

Design Requirements

a)  A  development  application  involving 
demolition  shall  be  considered  having 
regard to the following information:

i)  a  detailed  work  plan  prepared 
by  a  suitably  qualified  person,  in 
accordance  with  AS2601-2001- 
The  Demolition  of  Structures  (  as 
amended);

ii)  details  of  the  licensed  demolition 
contractor engaged to carry out the 
work (including name, address and 
building licence number);

iii)  a  hazardous  materials  report  that 
lists details of methods to prevent 
air,  noise  and  water  pollution  and 
the escape of hazardous substances 
into the public domain; 

iv)  details  of  any  asbestos  or  other 
hazardous 
be 
substances 
removed  from  the  site  and/or 
damaged during demolition; and

to 

v)  a  dilapidation  report  where  any 
demolition work is to be undertaken 
within the zone of influence of any 
other structure.

Figure  2.9.1  –  Demolition  waste 
materials  separated  and  stored  on-
site until they are safely removed for 
reuse, recycling or  disposal. 

b)  Where 

appropriate, 

demolished 
materials  shall be recycled for reuse on 
site.

Note: All demolition work shall comply with 
AS2601-2001 - The Demolition of Structures 
(as amended).

########Page32

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.10 Water Cycle Management

Objectives: 

2.10
Water Cycle 
Management

 ■ Ensure  that   water cycle management appropriately responds to site and water 

catchment conditions. 

 ■ Ensure  that  Water  Sensitive  Urban  Design  (WSUD)  principles  are  incorporated 

into development.

 ■ Retain  and  reinstate  (where  appropriate)  the  natural  water  course  into 

stormwater management measures.

 ■ Ensure  that  the  development  is  protected  from  mainstream,  local  catchment 

and overland flow aspects of flooding.  

2.10.1 Water Cycle Management

Design Requirements

a)  A 

comprehensive  Water 

Cycle 
Management  Plan  (WCMP)  shall  be 
prepared  and  submitted  as  part  of    a 
development application.

Figure 2.10.1 - Example of a WSUD ap-
proach to water quality.

Note:  For  requirements  relating  to  the 
preparation  of  a  WCMP  refer  to  Council’s 
Engineering  Design  Guide  for  Development 
available  from  Council’s  website  at  www.
campbelltown.nsw.gov.au .

Note:  Refer  to  Table  2.1  Thresholds  for 
when a WCMP is needed. 

2.10.2 Stormwater

Design Requirements

a)  All 

stormwater 

systems 
to  accommodate 

shall  be 
the  100-
sized 
year  ARI  event  (refer  to  Section  4  of 
Council’s Engineering Design Guide for 
Development  available  from  Council’s 
website  at  www.campbelltown.nsw.
gov.au.

b)  The  design  and  certification  of  any 
stormwater system shall be undertaken 
by a suitably qualified person. 

c)  Water  quality  control  structures  shall 
be  located  generally  off  line  to  creek 
paths  or  other  watercourses.  Major 

########Page33

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.10
Water Cycle 
Management

detention storages shall not be located 
on areas of native vegetation or within 
riparian areas.

d)  Development  shall  not 

impact  on 
adjoining sites by way of overland flow 
of  stormwater    unless  an  easement  is 
provided.  All  overland  flow  shall  be 
directed  to  designated  overland  flow 
paths such as roads.

e)  Safe passage of the Probable Maximum 
Flood (PMF) shall be demonstrated for 
major systems. 

f)  A  treatment  train  approach  to  water 
quality  shall  be 
into 
the  design  and  construction  of  major 
systems.

incorporated 

g)  A  major/minor  approach  to  drainage 
is  to  be  taken  for  stormwater  flows. 
Generally  the  piped  drainage  system 
shall  be  sized  to  accommodate  the 
difference  between  the  100-year  ARI 
flow  and  the  maximum  safe  overland 
flow, with minimum requirements as set 
out in section 4 of Council’s Engineering 
Design  Guide 
Development 
available  from  Council’s  website  at 
www.campbelltown.nsw.gov.au.

for 

Figure 2.10.2 - Water quality devices 
can  improve  water  quality  and  give 
an  important  visual  enhancement  to 
a development area.

h)  Stormwater 

on 

collected 

a 
development  site  shall  be  disposed  of 
(under  gravity)  directly  to  the  street 
or to another Council drainage system/
device.  Where  stormwater    cannot  be 
discharged directly to a public drainage 
facility,  a  drainage  easement  of    a 
suitable  width  shall  be  created  over 
a  downstream  property(s)  allowing 
for  the  provision  of  a  drainage  pipe 
of  suitable  size  to  adequately  drain 
the proposed development to a public 
drainage facility.  

Note: Rubble pits and charged lines are not 
generally  considered  a  suitable  drainage 
solution.

i)  All  proposed  drainage 

structures 
incorporated  within  new  development 

########Page34

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)shall  be  designed  to  maintain  public 
safety at all times.

j)  Development  shall  not  result  in  water 
run-off  causing  flooding  or  erosion  on 
adjacent properties. 

2.10
Water Cycle 
Management

k)  Stormwater 

into 

shall 

run-off 

channelled 

be  
a 
appropriately 
stormwater  drain  in  accordance  with 
Council’s  Engineering  Design  Guide  for 
Development  available  from  Council’s 
website  at  www.campbelltown.nsw.
gov.au.

l)  Where    applicable,  the  development 
shall  incorporate  the  creation  of  an 
to  manage 
appropriate  easement 
stormwater 
accordance  with 
Council’s  Engineering  Design  Guide  for 
Development  available  from  Council’s 
website  at  www.campbelltown.nsw.
gov.au.

in 

2.10.3 Stormwater Drainage  

Design Requirements

a)  A 

stormwater  Drainage 

Concept 
Plan  shall  be  prepared  by  a  suitably 
qualified  person,  and  submitted  with 
all development applications, involving 
construction 
internal 
(except 
alterations/fitouts),  demonstrating  to 
Council  how  the  stormwater  will  be 
collected and discharged from the site.

for 

b)  The  stormwater  concept  plan  shall 
include  the  following  information  as  a 
minimum:

i) 

locations, 
stormwater pipes and pits;

layouts  and  sizes  of 

ii)  minimum  grades  and    capacity  of 

stormwater pipes; and

iii)  existing  and  proposed  easements, 
site  contours  and  overland  flow 
path/s.

########Page35

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
2.11
Heritage

2.11 Heritage Conservation

Conservation

Objectives: 

 ■ Ensure that new development takes appropriate account of the significance of 

heritage items, heritage conservation areas, relics and their settings.

 ■ Respect the City’s heritage resource.

 ■ Promote the protection or conservation of those resources wherever possible.

 ■ To conserve the environmental and cultural heritage of the City in accordance 

with the the principles contained within the Burra Charter. 

2.11.1 Aboriginal Heritage

Design Requirements

Note: 

The  controls  provided  under  this 
section  are  in  addition  to  the 
requirements 
under 
Clause 5.10 Heritage Conservation 
of the CLEP.  

provided 

Figure 2.11.1 - Aboriginal rock art.

a)  All developments that have the potential 
impact  upon  Aboriginal  cultural 
to 
heritage  must  provide  an  assessment 
in  accordance  with  the  “Due  Diligence 
Code  of  Practice  for  the  Protection  of 
Aboriginal  Objects  in  NSW”,  published 
by  the  Office  of  Environment  and 
Heritage (OEH). This requires an initial 
investigation of the potential impact of 
a  development  on  Aboriginal  Cultural 
  where 
Heritage 
in  circumstances 
involves 
the  proposed  development 
(eg. 
disturbance  to  cultural  sites 
Aboriginal  culturally  modified  trees), 
or  the  ground  surface.  This  initial 
investigation is to be undertaken by the 
applicant and requires an assessment of 
whether there are:

i)  any  known  Aboriginal  sites  within 
the  development  site  (determined 
by  undertaking  a  search  of  the 
Information 
Aboriginal  Heritage 
(AHIMS) 
Management 
database 
is  maintained 
by  the  Office  of  Environment  and 
Heritage); and/or 

System 

(which 

ii)  any  other  sources  of  relevant 
information  of  which  a  person  is 
already aware; and/or

iii)  Whether  the  development  is  on  a 
site  that  is  not  disturbed  land  and 

########Page36

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
is: 

Note:

 – within 200m of waters, or 

 –

 –

located on a ridge top, ridge line or 
headland, or 

located within 200m below or above 
a cliff face, or 

 – within  20m  of/or  in  a  cave,  rock 

Land is disturbed if it has been the 
subject  of  a  human  activity  that 
has  changed  the  land’s  surface, 
being  changes  that  remain  clear 
and  observable.  Examples  of 
activities that may have disturbed 
land include the following:

shelter, or a cave mouth. 

i)  soil ploughing,

2.11
Heritage
Conservation

b)  Where the initial investigation confirms 
the  presence  or  likely  presence  of 
Aboriginal  objects  or 
the  above 
landscape features, further assessment 
and visual inspection must be conducted 
in  accordance  with  the  “Due  Diligence 
Code  of  Practice  for  the  Protection  of 
Aboriginal Objects in NSW” by a person 
with  expertise  in  Aboriginal  cultural 
heritage management.

c) 

If  this  assessment  indicates  that  there 
are,  or  are  likely  to  be,  Aboriginal 
objects,  and/or  an  Aboriginal  Place 
in  the  area  of  the  proposed  activity, 
more  detailed  investigation  and  an 
impact  assessment  shall  be  required 
and must be prepared by a person with 
expertise in Aboriginal cultural heritage 
management.    Where  it  is  determined 
that  harm  could  occur  to  Aboriginal 
objects  then  an  Aboriginal  Heritage 
Impact  Permit  application  must  be 
made  to  the  OEH  (and  be  approved 
prior to works occurring). 

d)  The  assessment  shall  be  prepared 
following 

in  accordance  with  the 
documents:

i)  Due Diligence Code of Practice for 
the Protection of Aboriginal Objects 
in NSW (2010); 

ii)  Code of Practice for Archaeological 
Investigation  of Aboriginal  Objects 
in New South Wales (2010); and

iii)  Aboriginal 

heritage 
consultation 
for 
proponents  2010.    Part  6  National 

cultural 
requirements 

ii) construction 

of 

rural 
infrastructure  (such  as  dams 
and fences),

iii)  construction  of  roads,  trails 
and tracks (including fire trails 
and tracks and walking tracks),

iv) clearing of vegetation,

v) construction of buildings and the 
erection of other structures,

vi) construction 

installation 
or 
of  utilities  and  other  similar 
services  (such  as  above  or 
electrical 
below 
water 
infrastructure, 
or 
pipelines, 
stormwater drainage and other 
similar infrastructure),

sewerage 

ground 

vii) substantial  grazing  involving 
rural 

the  construction  of 
infrastructure,

viii) construction  of  earthworks 
associated  with 
anything 
referred  to  in  paragraphs  (ii-
vii).

Source: National Parks and Wildlife 
Regulation 2009

########Page37

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.11
Heritage
Conservation

Parks and Wildlife Act 1974 (2010).

e)  The assessment shall take into account 

the following documents:

i)  Operational 

Aboriginal 
(February 2009); 

Policy: 
Cultural 

Protecting 
Heritage 

to 

ii)  OEH  Guide 
investigating, 
assessing 
on 
Aboriginal cultural heritage in NSW 
(2011).

reporting 

and 

Figure  2.11.2  -  Rock  shelters  often 
contain artefacts in the form of rock 
art or occupation deposits.

Note:  The  Office  of  Environment  and 
Heritage  web  site  has  further  information 
about  how  to  do  a  detailed  investigation 
and  Aboriginal  Heritage  Impact  Permit 
applications 
(www.environment.nsw.gov.
au).

Note. For the purpose of this Section:

Aboriginal  culturally  modified  tree  means 
a  tree  that,  before  or  concurrent  with  (or 
both)  the  occupation  of  the  area  in  which 
the  tree  is  located  by  persons  of  non-
Aboriginal  extraction,  has  been  scarred, 
carved or modified by an Aboriginal person 
by:

(a)  the  deliberate  removal,  by  traditional 
methods, of bark or wood from the tree, or

(b) 
the  deliberate  modification,  by 
traditional  methods,  of  the  wood  of  the 
tree.

########Page38

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.11.2 Heritage

Design Requirements

a)  Any  development  application  made  in 
respect to development on land that is:

i)  occupied by a heritage item; or

ii)  adjoining 

land  occupied  by  a  

heritage item; or

iii)  located 

within 
conservation area,

a 

heritage 

shall  provide  a  Statement  of  Heritage 
Impact  (SHI)  that  assesses  the  impact 
of  the  proposed  development    on  the 
heritage  significance,  visual  curtilage 
and  setting  of  the  heritage  item  or 
conservation area. 

b)  Any  development  on  land  occupied  by 
an  item  of  heritage,  or  land  located 
within  a  heritage  conservation  area 
shall be designed by a suitably qualified 
person and have regard to the provisions 
of  any  relevant  study  or  Conservation 
Management Plan (CMP) . 

c)  Unless  otherwise  advised  by  council,  a 
Conservation  Management  Plan  (CMP) 
shall  be  required  for  all  proposed 
development  involving  the  adaptive 
reuse  of  a  heritage  item,  or  major 
alterations and additions. 

Note:  The  CMP  shall  be  prepared  by  a 
suitably qualified person in accordance with 
the relevant guidelines of the NSW Office of 
Environment and Heritage. 

Note:  For  requirements  relating  to  the 
preparation of a heritage impact assessment 
report refer to Appendix 9.

Note: A Heritage Impact Statement  must be 
prepared  by  a  suitably  qualified  person  in 
accordance with the document “Statements 
of  Heritage  Impact”  published  by  the  NSW 
Heritage  Branch  and  available  for  view 
at:www.environment.nsw.gov.au

2.11
Heritage
Conservation

Note: 

Additional  site  specific  heritage 
development controls are included 
under Volume 2 Part 4 Site Specific 
Heritage Controls. The site specific 
heritage  controls  apply  to  the 
following  heritage  conservation 
area/heritage 
items  and  their 
curtilage:

 •

Queen  Street  Heritage 
Conservation Area; 

 • Woodcrest  Heritage  Item; 

and

 •

Raith Heritage Item.

Statement   
Impact 
Heritage 
is  a  document  consisting  of  a 
statement  demonstrating 
the 
heritage significance of a heritage 
item  or  heritage  conservation 
area,  or  of  a  building  work, 
archaeological site, tree or place 
within  a  heritage  conservation 
area, an assessment of the impact 
that 
development 
will  have  on  that  significance 
and  proposals  for  measures  to 
minimise impacts.

proposed 

Figure  2.11.3  -  Careful  consideration 
shall be given to any development that 
has the potential to impact on items of 
heritage and their setting.

########Page39

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.12
Retaining 

Walls

2.12  Retaining Walls

Objective:

 ■ Ensure  that  retaining  walls  visible  to  a  public  place  are  compatible  with  the 
character  and  scale  of  development  within  the  streetscape  and  other  public 
domain areas in the locality.

Design Requirements

a)  Any retaining wall that is not complying 
or  exempt  development  as  specified 
in  the  E&CDC  shall  be  designed  by  a 
suitably qualified person.

b)  In 

the  case  of 

retaining  walls 
constructed  to  support  proposed  fill 
on  an  allotment,  the  following  design 
criteria shall apply:

Figure 2.12.1 - Example of a retaining 
wall.

details 

sufficient 

i)  No filling shall be permitted within 
2 metres of any property boundary 
unless 
are 
submitted  to  Council  illustrating 
overshadowing, 
how 
and 
stormwater  management 
access issues have been addressed 
to Council’s satisfaction.

privacy, 

c) 

the  case  of 

retaining  walls 
In 
constructed  to  support  proposed  cut 
on  an  allotment,  the  following  design 
criteria shall apply:

i)  The retaining wall shall be setback 
a  minimum  of  450mm  from  the 
rear  and  side  boundary  of  the  lot 
containing the cut.

Note: Council may allow for a zero setback 
of  retaining  walls,  where  neighbours’ 
consent  has  been  obtained  and  submitted 
as part of the DA.

d)  Any  retaining  wall  shall  not  adversely 
alter surface flows to adjoining private 
land.

e)  Any  retaining  wall  and  associated 
structures  shall  be  designed  to  be 
located  wholly  within  the  property 
boundary,  except  where  written  or 

########Page40

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)legal  agreements  have  been  reached 
between  relevant  parties  to  Council’s 
satisfaction. 

f)  Any  excavation  within  the  zone  of 
for  any  other  structure 
influence 
requires  a  Structural 
or  building 
(prepared  by 
Engineering  Report 
suitably  qualified  professional) 
a 
that  adequate  and 
demonstrating 
appropriate  measures  are 
to  be 
implemented to protect the integrity of 
any structure. 

2.12
Retaining 

Walls

########Page41

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.13
Security

2.13 Security

Objective: 

 ■ Ensure that development incorporates security features in accordance with the 

principles of Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED) to: 

 •
 •

 minimise opportunities for crime; and

 enhance security.

Design Requirements 

a)  Development shall be designed to:

i)  maximise, 

possible, 
where 
casual  surveillance  opportunities 
to the  street 
surrounding 
and 
public places;

ii)  minimise dead ends and other   
possible entrapment areas;

iii)  clearly    identify  and  illuminate  
access  points  to  buildings  and 
designated public places; and

iv)  clearly 

differentiate 

between 

private and public space.

b)  External lighting shall be designed to:

i)  encourage the use of safe areas;

ii)  define safe corridors for movement 

of people; and

Figure  2.13.1  -  Illustration  of  how 
buildings may be designed to 
provide  for  passive  surveillance  to 
and from a public place.

iii)  allow 

facial 

recognition 

of 
approaching  pedestrians  at  15 
metres. 

c)  Development 

incorporate 
shall 
appropriate  landscaping,  fencing  and 
security  devices  to  assist  in  crime 
prevention. 

d)  Commercial  and  industrial  buildings 
that  are  not  secured  from  public 
access  after  close  of  business  shall 
have  external  finishes  that  are  graffiti 
resistant.

e)  Development 

applications 

for 
multi  dwelling  housing,  attached 
dwellings  residential  flat  buildings, 

########Page42

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
shop 

  and 

top 
mixed-use  development, 
housing,  commercial  development, 
industrial  development 
large 
subdivision  comprising  more 
scale 
than  10  dwellings/units  allotments  or 
incorporating  works  to  be  dedicated 
to  Council  shall  be  accompanied  by  a 
crime prevention plan to be  prepared  
by a suitably qualified person addressing 
how  the  development  embraces  the 
principles of  Crime Prevention Through 
Environmental Design.

Note:  For  requirements  relating  to  the 
preparation  of  a  Crime  Prevention  Plan 
refer to Appendix 13.

2.13
Security

########Page43

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.14
Risk 
Management 

2.14 Risk Management

Objective: 

 ■ Ensure that hazards of the site are addressed so as to minimise the risk of:

 •
 •
 •

injury to persons/property;

damage to the environment; and 

financial loss.

2.14.1 Contaminated Land

Design Requirements

a)  The  requirements  of  Managing  Land 
Contamination  Planning  Guidelines, 
SEPP  55  –  Remediation  of  Land  (EPA, 
DUAP,  1998)  shall  be  satisfied  on  sites 
known  to  have,  or  may  give  Council 
reason  to  suspect,  a  potential  for 
previous contamination. 

b)  An  initial  investigation  regarding  the 
possible  or  actual  contamination  of  a 
site  shall  be  carried  out  by  a  suitably 
qualified person.

c)  Where  a  site  is  identified  by  Council, 
Office  of  Environment  and  Heritage 
investigation 
and/or  by  the 
as  being,  or  having  the  potential  to 
be  contaminated,  a  Contamination 
Management  Plan  shall  be  submitted 
with the development application.

initial 

Note:  For  requirements  relating  to  the 
preparation of a Contamination Management 
Plan refer to Appendix 10.

2.14.2 Salinity

Design Requirements

a)  Any development :

i)  within 50 metres of the top of the 

bank of a watercourse;

ii)  located in an area that has bare soil 

patches or salt scalds; 

iii)  occupied  by  soils  that  appear  
‘puffy’  when  dry,  or  greasy  when 

########Page44

Figure  2.14.1  -  Salt  damage  in  the 
brickwork  of  buildings  identifies  a 
possible salinity problem in the area.

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)wet;

iv)  located in an area that is occupied 
by salt tolerant plant species; 

v) 

in  an  area 

located 
that  has 
white  staining  on    nearby  house  
foundations or walls; or

vi)  located on soils that are derived  

from Wianamatta Shale;

shall be designed in accordance with 
Section  5.8  Council’s  Engineering 
Design  Guide 
for  Development 
available  from  Council’s  website  at 
www.campbelltown.nsw.gov.au. 

b)  A  detailed 

Salinity  Analysis  and 
Remedial Action Plan shall be prepared 
and  submitted  with  the  development 
application if:                     

i) 

the site has been identified as being 
subject to  a salinity hazard; or

ii)  an  investigation  reveals  that  the 

land is saline. 

2.14.3 Bushfire

Design Requirements

a)  Development  shall  be  designed  and 
located so as to minimise the risk of loss 
of life or property from bushfire.

b)  Development on bush fire prone land (as 
detailed on the Campbelltown Bush Fire 
Prone Lands Map) shall comply with the 
requirements  of  Planning  for  Bushfire 
Protection, ( NSW Rural Fire Service)  as 
amended.

c)  Development  applications  relating  to 
land  identified  on  the  Bushfire    Prone 
Land  Map  shall  be  accompanied  by  a 
Bushfire  Hazard  Assessment  Report 
prepared by a suitably qualified person.

d)  All 

‘Asset  Protection  Zones’  shall 
be  provided  within  the  boundary  of 
land.  National  Parks, 
the  subject 

2.14
Risk 
Management 

########Page45

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Note: 

Development 
Rural 

Refer  to  Volume  1,  Part  4  Rural 
and 
Residential 
Ancillary 
Residential 
Structures  for  additional  specific 
requirements in relation to bushfire 
requirements. 

2.14
Risk
Management

Crown  Reserves,  water  catchments, 
easements,  Council  managed  reserves, 
riparian  corridors  other  private  land 
shall not be considered as part of asset 
protection zones unless approved by the 
NSW Rural Fire Service.

as 

e)  Adequate water reserves for fire fighting 
shall be available and accessible on site 
as  specified  in  Planning  for  Bushfire 
Protection, 
amended.  Hazard 
(burning  or  mechanical) 
reduction 
proposals  shall  be  in  accordance  with 
the  Campbelltown  Bush  Fire  Risk 
Management  Plan  and  the  Bush  Fire 
Environmental 
Code. 
Landowners  wishing 
to  undertake 
hazard  reduction  shall  contact  the 
NSW  Rural  Fire  Service  (NSWRFS)  for 
any 
to 
requirements.  Applications 
undertake  hazard  reduction  will  be 
assessed  by  the  NSWRFS  under  the 
Bushfire  Environmental  Assessment 
Code.  Guidelines  for  hazard  reduction 
include:

Assessment 

i)  as  far  as  possible,  the  frequency, 
time  of  year  and  intensity  of  any 
hazard reduction burning in native 
vegetation    is    to      approximate 
the natural regime; and

ii)  periodic  weed  monitoring  and 
control  shall  be  undertaken  after 
bushfires      and  hazard  reduction 
burning,  and  appropriate  action 
taken as necessary.

f)  Any development proposing the removal 
of  native  vegetation  for  APZ  purposes 
shall 
investigate  the  environmental 
impact of the removal of that vegetation.

2.14.4 Subsidence

Design Requirements

a)  Any development on a site located within 
South  Campbelltown  Mine  Subsidence 
District,  or  Appin  Mine  Subsidence 
District  may  be  at  risk  of    the  effects 
of  subsidence  from  past  and/or  future 

########Page46

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)underground  mining.  An  appropriate 
engineering outcome shall be achieved.

b)  An  applicant  shall  make  appropriate 
enquiries and have plans stamped  with 
the Mine Subsidence Board regarding any 
construction requirements for any type 
of  development  involving  the  erection 
of a building within a mine subsidence 
district  prior 
to  a  development 
application being submitted to Council.

Note:  A  copy  of  the  South  Campbelltown 
Mine  Subsidence  District  map  can  be 
inspected  at  Council’s  Civic  Centre  or  at 
www.minesub.nsw.gov.au.

2.14.5 Public Health

Design Requirements

a)  Cooling  towers  shall  be  located  in 
accordance  with  the  requirements  of 
the following standards:

i)  Australian 

Standard  No.  AS/
NZS  3666  Part  1,  Air-Handling 
and  Water  Systems  of  Buildings-
Microbial  Control  Installation  and 
Commissioning (as amended). 

ii)  Australian 

Standard  No.  AS/
NZS  3666  Part  2,  Air-Handling 
and  Water  Systems  of  Buildings-
Microbial  Control  Operation  and 
maintenance (as amended).

iii)  Australian 

Standard  No.  AS/
NZS  3666  Part  3,  Air-Handling 
and  Water  Systems  of  Buildings-
Microbial  Control  Performance-
based  maintenance  of  cooling 
water systems  (as amended).

2.14
Risk 
Management

########Page47

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.15
Waste
Management

2.15 Waste Management

Objectives: 

 ■ Ensure  waste  systems  are  easy  to  use  and  that,  where  necessary,  collection 

vehicles are able to access buildings to remove waste.

 ■ Ensure  healthy  and  safe  practices  for  the  storage,  handling  and  collection  of 

waste and recycling materials.

 ■ Prevent stormwater pollution that may occur as a result of poor waste storage 

and management arrangements.

 ■ Promote  the  principles  of  ESD  through  appropriate  resource  recovery  and 
recycling, leading to a reduction in the consumption of finite natural resources.

 ■ Minimise the creation of noise during the collection of waste and recyclables.

2.15.1 Waste Management Plan

Design Requirements

a)  A  detailed  Waste  Management  Plan 
(WMP)  shall  accompany  development 
applications 
types  of 
for  certain 
development/land  uses,  as  detailed 
in  Table  2.15.1  and  for  any  other 
development  that  in  the  opinion  of 
Council a WMP is required.

b)  Council  may  require  a  WMP  for  any 
other development, where in Council’s 
opnion, such a development

c)  Plans  submitted  with  a  development 
application  shall  detail  the  following 
(as applicable): 

i) 

the size and location of waste and 
recycling storage areas;

ii)  routes  for  occupants  to  access 

waste and recycling areas; 

iii)  collection  point  and/or  access 
route for collection vehicles;

iv)  ventilation  of  waste  and  recycling 

storage areas;

v) 

location  of  garbage  chute  and 
service rooms;

vi)  bin  and  storage  area  washing 

facilities; and

########Page48

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.15
Waste
Management

vii) occupants’  disposal  points  for  all 

waste streams.

Note:  Waste  Management  Plan  forms  are 
available  on  Council’s  web  site  at  www.
campbelltown.nsw.gov.au.

2.15.2 Waste Management During    
Demolition and Construction

Design Requirements

a)  All  waste  and  recyclable  streams  shall 

be stored separately on site.

b)  All  storage  areas/containers  for  each 
waste  and  recycling  stream  shall  be 
kept on the site at all times and shall be 
indicated on the site plans/drawings as 
part of the WMP.

c)  Where  material  cannot  be  reused 
or  recycled,  it  shall  be  disposed  of 
at  an  appropriately  licensed  waste 
management facility. Details of disposal 
arrangements  shall  be  specified  in  the 
WMP.

d)  Convenient  and  safe  vehicular  access 
to waste and recycling material storage 
areas shall be provided.

e)  The  removal,  handling  and  disposal  of 
asbestos  or  other  hazardous  materials 
shall be carried out in accordance with 
WorkCover  NSW,  Office  of  Environment 
and  Heritage  and  other  regulatory 
authority guidelines and requirements.

Table 2.15.1 – Requirements for submitting a WMP

Development Type

Demolition Construction Ongoing

Dwelling  houses  (including  secondary  dwellings  and  out-
buildings)

Dual occupancies, semi-detached dwellings

Multi dwelling housing, attached dwellings

Residential flat buildings and boarding houses

Mixed use development

Building fit out

Commercial development

Industrial development 

















































########Page49

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
2.15
Waste
Management

2.15.3 On-going Waste Management

Design Requirements

a)  Provision  shall  be  made  for  all  waste 
and  recycling  storage  containers  to 
be  located  behind  the  primary  and 
secondary  building  line  and  out  of 
public view.

b)  Any  room(s)  for  storing  garbage  and 
recycling shall be located in a position 
that  is  convenient  for  occupants  and 
waste collection staff. Collection rooms 
shall complement the development and 
not  be  visibly  obtrusive  when  viewed 
from any public place.

c)  A  refuse  collection  point  shall  be 
nominated  demonstrating  that  waste-
loading operations can occur on a level 
surface not adjacent to steep gradients, 
vehicle  ramps  and  pedestrian  access 
points. 

d)  The  path  for  wheeling  bins  between 
waste storage area(s) and the collection 
vehicle shall be free of steps or kerbs and 
have a maximum gradient of 1V:8H.

e)  The maximum travel distance between 
the 
storage  area/point  and 
any 
collection point for all bins shall be 25 
metres. 

f)  Where  it  is  intended  that  collection 
vehicles  are  to  drive  into  a  private 
property to collect waste and recycling, 
the  development  shall  be  designed  to 
provide for: 

i) 

the safe and efficient service of the 
development with minimal need to 
reverse;

ii)  vehicles  to  enter  and  exit  in  a 

forward direction;

Figure 2.15.1 – Example of 
management of construction waste.

iii)  adequate 

clearance 

to  
accommodate the waste collection 
vehicle dimensions detailed in Table  
2.15.2.

iv)  where  collection  vehicles  are 
required  to  enter  the  property, 

########Page50

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)the pavement shall be constructed 
in  such  a  manner  that  will  not  be 
damaged  by  a  collection  vehicle 
carrying the maximum legal weight. 

Note: No waste incineration devices shall be 
located on the site.

2.15
Waste 
Management

Table 2.15.2 - Indicative dimensions of waste collection vehicles

Side loading 
collection vehicle

Front loading 
collection vehicle

Rear loading 
collection vehicle

Overall length

9.9 metres

9.2 metres

8 metres

Overall width

2.5 metres

2.5 metres

2.5 metres

Operational height

4 metres

Travel height

4 metres

6 metres

4 metres

4 metres

4 metres

Weight (vehicle only)

13 tonnes

16.5 tonnes

13 tonnes

Weight (payload)

9.5 tonnes

11 tonnes

9.5 tonnes

Turning circle radius

12.5 metres

12.5 metres

12.5 metres

Note: These specifications are indicative only and may vary depending on vehicle brand, 
model, axle configuration etc. 

########Page51

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.16
Provision of 
Services  

Objectives:

2.16 Provision of Services      

 ■ Ensure that development is provided with adequate water and power supply. 

 ■ Ensure  that  the  operations,  installation  and  maintenance  of  on-site  sewage 

systems do not:

 •
 •

 •

impose risks on public health;

result in any potential contamination to groundwater, and natural 
and artificial watercourses.

result in degradation of soil structure. 

Note: 

Refer  to  Parts  6  Urban  Release 
Areas  and  Clause  7.1    Essential 
Services of the CLEP.

2.16.1 Water

Design Requirements 

a)  Where  connection  to  the  reticulated 
water  supply  system  is  not  available, 
development  shall be provided with:

i) 

sufficient  water  storage  to  cater 
for  all  relevant  activities  of    the 
proposed use of the development;

ii)  sufficient  storage  for  fire  fighting 
purposes 
in  accordance  with 
Planning  for  Bushfire  Protection 
2006, NSW Rural Fire Service.

Note: Water reserved for fire fighting may be 
stored in an above water tank, underground 
water tank, a dam  or a swimming pool, no 
further than  30  metres from the proposed 
development and is within a 4 metre reach 
of a  Category one  tanker.

2.16.2 Electricity

a)  Details  of  the  proposed  method  of 
power  supply  shall  be  provided  as 
part  of  the  development  application 
for  any  development  involving  the 
construction  of  a  building  within  rural 
and environmental protection zones.

b)  Any  structure  associated  with  the 
provision  of  electricity 
shall  not 
result  in  any  adverse  impacts  on  the 
natural  environment  and/or  adjoining 
properties. 

########Page52

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.16.3  On-Site  Wastewater  Sewage 
Management 

a)  On-site  Wastewater 

Management 
Systems  and  Private  Recycled  Water 
Schemes shall comply with the following 
codes and standards:

i)  Council’s  Wastewater  Management 
and Water Recycling Strategy 2009;

ii)  Environmental & Health Protection 
Sewage 
Guidelines: 
Management for Single Households 
1998;

On-site 

2.16
Provision of 
Services  

iii)  NSW 

Guidelines 

the 
Management  of  Private  Recycled 
Water Schemes 2008;

for 

iv)  NSW  Guidelines  for  Greywater 
Reuse in Sewered, Single Household 
Residential Premises 2007;

v)  the 

then 

Department 

of 
Environment  &  Conservation  NSW, 
Environmental  Guidelines  Use  of 
Effluent by Irrigation, 2004;

vi)  AS/NZS  1547:On-site  Domestic 
Wastewater  Management 
(as 
amended);

vii) AS/NZS  3500  National  Plumbing 
and  Drainage  Standards  and  NSW 
Code  of  Practice  –  Plumbing  and 
Drainage (as amended);

viii) AS/NZS  1546.1  On-site  domestic 
wastewater  treatment  units  Part 
1: Septic Tanks (as amended);

ix)  AS/NZS  1546.2  On-site  domestic 
wastewater  treatment  units  Part 
2: Waterless composting toilet (as 
amended);

x)  AS/NZS  1546.3:  On-site  domestic 
wastewater  treatment  units  Part 
3:Aerated  Wastewater  treatment 
systems (as amended); 

xi)  AS/NZS 3500 National Plumbing and 
Drainage Standard (as amended);

########Page53

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.16
Provision of
Services  

xii) National Water Quality Management 
Strategy-Australian  Guidelines  for 
Water  Recycling  (  Phase  1  )  2006; 
and

xiii) National Water Quality Management 
Strategy-Australian 
Guidelines 
for  Water  Recycling  Stormwater 
Harvesting and Reuse 2009.

b)  All development applications for an on-
site  wastewater  management  system 
or  private  recycled  water  scheme 
shall be accompanied by a site specific 
wastewater  report  for  all  wastewater 
facilities  located  on  the  premises.  The 
report  shall  be  prepared  by  a  suitably 
qualified  person/company  specialising 
in  wastewater    and  water  recycling 
systems  in  accordance  with  Council’s 
Wastewater  Management  and  Water 
Recycling Strategy 2009.

c)  The  type  of  wastewater  management 
system  and  method  of 
reclaimed 
effluent application shall be determined 
having regards to the following:

i)  allotment size and slope;

ii)  soil classification; and

iii)  proximity to water courses.

d)  The connection of an existing septic tank 
to  a  single  tank  Aerated  Wastewater 
Treatment  System  will  be  assessed  on 
its  merits  providing  that    the  existing 
septic  tank  is  structurally  sound  in 
accordance with Council’s requirements 
and specifications.

e)  On-site  Wastewater 

Management 
Systems  &  Private  Recycled  Water 
Schemes  shall  be  designed,  installed, 
operated and maintained in accordance 
with the manufacturer’s specifications.

Note:  Council’s  Minimum  Requirements  for 
a site specific Wastewater Management On-
Site System Report Guidelines and Council’s 
Waste  water  Management  and  Water 
Recycling  Strategy  2009  are  available  for 
download  from  Council’s  website  at  www.

########Page54

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)campbelltown.nsw.gov.au.

f)  All  wastewater  management  systems  and 
private  recycled  water  schemes  shall  be 
provided  with  the  following  minimum  buffer 
distance:

i)  100 metres to permanent surface waters;

ii)  250  metres  to  domestic  groundwater 

well; and

iii)  40 metres to other waters

2.17
Work On, Over 
or Near Public 
Land   

2.17 Work On, Over or Near Public Land     

Objectives:

 ■ Protect public health and safety. 

 ■ Ensure that Council assets and  infrastructure are protected.

 ■ Ensure  proper  management  of  traffic  during  the  construction  phase  of 

development. 

2.17.1  Approval  Required  Prior  to 
Working On or Over Public Land 

Design Requirements

a)  Written approval shall be obtained from 
Council,  prior  to  the  commencement 
of  any  works,  activities  or  occupancy 
upon public land, including roads, road 
related areas, stormwater connections, 
Council  car  parks,  footpaths  or  nature 
strips. 

Note: Written approval under Clause 2.17.1a) 
may  be  in  the  form  of  a  road  occupancy 
approval,  standing  plant  approval  or  work 
zone approval depending upon the intended 
activities.  Further  information  about  the 
type  of  approval  required  can  be  obtained 
by  contacting  Council’s  Customer  Service 
Centre on (02) 4645 4000.

Note:  Failure  to  obtain  written  approval 
prior to the carrying out of works, activities 
or occupancy upon public land may result in 

########Page55

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.17
Work On, Over 
or Near Public 
Land   

Council taking enforcement action. 

2.17.2 Working Near Public Land

Design Requirements

a)  Not  withstanding  clause  2.17.1  a)    a 
hoarding  or  fence  shall  be  erected 
between  the  work  site  and  a  public 
place where:

i) 

in 

involved 

the  work 
the 
development  is  likely  to  cause 
pedestrian  or  vehicle  traffic  in  a 
public  place  to  be  obstructed  or 
altered; and/or

ii)  the building involves the enclosure 
of  a  public  place  in  accordance 
with Work Cover requirements

b)  Where  a  hoarding  fence  is  required  to 
be erected upon public land, including 
any  road,  road  related  area,  footpath 
or  nature  strip,  prior  written  approval 
shall be obtained from Council. 

c)  Where  the  site  work  is  likely  to  be 
hazardous to persons on a public place, 
the work site shall be kept lit between 
the sunset and sunrise.

2.17.3  Excavation  Work  Near  State 
Roads

a)  Any  proposal  that  includes  excavation 
works adjacent to a State Road shall be 
accompanied  by  detailed  geotechnical 
report 
the  proposed 
to 
excavation  of  the  site  and  support 
structures to RMS’s satisfaction. 

relating 

########Page56

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.18
Land adjacent 

Work on land 
adjacent 
 to the  
Upper Canal
Corridor 

2.18 Work on Land Adjacent to the Upper Canal Corridor

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure  that  the  Upper  Canal  is  taken  into  account  in  siting,  designing  and 
constructing any proposed development adjoining or in the vicinity of the Canal

 ■ Ensure that development adjacent to the Upper Canal corridor does not impact 

on the continued operation of the Canal infrastructure.

 ■ Provide for the safety and amenity of the public living or visiting areas adjacent 

to the upper Canal.

 ■ Protect water quality by preventing stormwater or other pollutants entering the 

Upper Canal system.

 ■ Ensure  that  development  adjacent  to  the  Upper  Canal  corridor  considers  and 

responds to its heritage value.

Design Requirements

Note:

a)  Where 

or 

subdivision 

major 
development  (other  than  individual 
residential  dwellings  and  ancillary 
structures) is proposed adjacent to the 
Upper  Canal  corridor,  applicants  shall 
consult with Water NSW as part of the 
process  of  preparing  the  development 
application.

b)  Any written requirements of  Water NSW 
shall be submitted with the development 
application  and 
the  development 
application  documentation  shall  show 
how  the  requirements  have  been 
addressed.

c)  Prior written approval shall be obtained 
from  Water  NSW  for  any  access  that 
may  be  required  to  the  Upper  Canal 
corridor during the construction phase.

d)  Access  points  to  the  Upper  Canal  for 
Water NSW staff and contractors to carry 
out  inspections  and  maintenance  shall 
be retained or provided in accordance 
with Water NSW  requirements.

e)  Site preparation and construction works 
carried out adjacent to or crossing the 
Upper  Canal  shall  avoid  impacting  on 
water  quality  and  damaging  the  Canal 

Applicants  are  advised  to  refer 
publication 
to  Water  NSW 
“Guidelines 
for  development 
adjacent  to  the  Upper  Canal 
and  Warragamba 
Pipelines” 
when  preparing  development 
applications for land adjacent to 
the Upper Canal. 

Note:

The  Upper  Canal  is  owned  and 
managed  by  Water  NSW  and  is 
located  on  land  classified  as  a 
controlled  area  under  Water 
NSW  Act 2014.  The Canal begins 
at  Pheasants  Nest  Weir  on  the 
Nepean River and transfers water 
from  the  Upper  Nepean  dams 
to  the  Prospect  Water  Filtration 
Plant  to  supply  a  significant 
part  of  Sydney’s  drinking  water.  
The  upper  Canal  is  historically 
significant  having  functioned  as 
part of Sydney’s main water supply 
system  for  more  than  120  years 
and is listed on the State Heritage 
Register. 

########Page57

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)infrastructure, 
Water NSW requirements.

in  accordance  with 

f)  Stormwater 

systems 

serving 
development  adjacent  to  the  Upper 
Canal shall be designed to ensure that 
stormwater  does  not  enter  the  Canal.  
Stormwater  management  measures 
shall  accommodate  and  not  impede 
upstream  flows  from  any  systems  that 
convey  stormwater  across,  along  or 
under the Upper Canal.

g)  Appropriate 

fencing 

security 

shall 
be  provided,  or  existing  security 
fencing  retained  along  the  length  of 
development  boundaries  that  directly 
adjoin 
the  Upper  Canal  corridor 
boundary,  in  accordance  with  Water 
NSW requirements.

h)  Road, pedestrian and cycleway crossings 
of the Upper Canal shall be minimised 
and located and designed in accordance 
with Water NSW requirements.

i)  A local road shall be provided, or existing 
roads  retained,  between  development 
and  the  Upper  Canal  corridor.    The 
road  shall  contain  a  landscaped  verge 
or  footpath/bicycle  path  between  the 
road carriageway and Canal corridor.

j)  The State Heritage status of the Upper 
Canal shall be taken into account when 
designing development adjacent to the 
Canal corridor.

2.18
Land adjacent 

Work on land 
adjacent 
 to the  
Upper Canal
Corridor  

########Page58

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.19 Development Near or on Electricity Easements

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure that development on or near electricity easements considers potential 

impacts on the integrity and safety of electricity infrastructure.

 ■ Ensure reasonable standards of public amenity and a high quality public domain 

in the vicinity of electricity easements.

 ■ Ensure reasonable standards of residential amenity and a high quality residential 

environment in the vicinity of electricity easements.

2.19
Land adjacent 
Development 
near or on 
electricity 
easements 

Design Requirements

a)  Wherever possible electrical easements 
are  to  be  located  within  open  space 
corridors.

b)  Council  may 

consider 

accepting 
dedication of land within the electrical 
easement  where 
subdivision 
is  in  accordance  with  an  approved 
subdivision or layout/plan for the site.

the 

c)  Restrictions  apply  to  planting  and 
raised  public  domain 
erection  of 
elements  (such  as  light  poles)  and  are 
identified  in  the  Mains  Maintenance 
Instruction  MMI  0015  -  Management 
electrical 
of 
easements (Endeavour Energy, 2011) or 
as revised for design requirements.

Endeavour 

Energy’s 

d)  All proposed activities within electricity 
easements  require  approval  from  the 
relevant  utility  providers.    Applicants 
shall  consult  with  these  agencies  and 
obtain  the  relevant  approvals  prior  to 
submitting a DA to Council. 

e)  Evidence of approval from the relevant 
utility provider shall  be submitted with 
the DA.

f)  Subdivision of residential land containing 

easements shall be minimised.

########Page59

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)2.20
Land adjacent 
Development 
on land 
adjacent 
to, or
affected by 
gas
easement 

########Page60

2.20  Development  on  Land  Adjacent  to,  or  Affected  by  a  Gas 
Easement

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure reasonable standards of residential amenity and  safety and a high quality 

residential environment in the vicinity of high pressure gas easements.

Design Requirements

submitting  applications 

a)  Development and use of land within the 
easement is restricted by the conditions 
of  the  easement  and  applicants  shall 
demonstrate  compliance  with  any 
restrictions  imposed  by  the  easement 
when 
for 
development.  In  order  to  demonstrate 
above 
compliance 
requirement, the applicant shall supply 
documentation  that  details  discussions 
undertaken  with  the  utility  providers/
easement  beneficiaries  during 
the 
design phase of the development. 

with 

the 

b)  The 

following  development  within 
the  easement  shall  be  referred  to  the 
relevant  utility  provider  for  approval 
prior  to  any  works  being  commenced, 
and  evidence  of  the  utility  provider’s 
agreement must be submitted with the 
DA:

i)  Excavation,  blasting  or  other 

earthworks;

ii)  Any  improvements  or  installations 
(e.g.  buildings,  roads,  footpaths 
fencing or other structures)

iii)  Transport  or  parking  of  heavy 

vehicles.

iv)  Planting or cultivating trees within 

five metres of the pipeline.

c)  Dwellings and other buildings are to be 

located outside the easement.

d)  The  easement  may  be 

located 

in 
backyards  or  at  the  side  of  dwellings 
providing  that  access  to  the  easement 
for inspections and maintenance is not 

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)unduly restricted and with the approval 
of  the  relevant  utility  provider,  where 
necessary.

e)  Subdivision of land containing easements 
shall  be  minimised,  however  battle-
axe  lots  may  be  appropriate  in  some 
locations to maximise the development 
potential of land while avoiding impacts 
on the easement.

f)  Reference  shall  be  made  to  AS2885  in 
relation to sensitive land uses that may 
be  restricted  within  a  certain  distance 
(referred  to  as  the  Zone  of  Influence) 
of  the  gas  pipeline.  Sensitive  land 
uses  include  (but  are  not  limited  to) 
schools,  hospitals,  aged  care  facilities 
and  community  facilities.  Applicants 
should  consult  with  the  organisation 
responsible  for  the  gas  pipeline  to 
determine specific requirements.

g)  Development shall be to the satisfaction 

of the relevant utility provider.

2.20
Land adjacent 
Development 
on land 
adjacent 
to, or
affected by 
gas
easement 

########Page61

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)This  page  is  intentionally  left 
blank. 

########Page62

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
Part 3 

Low  and  Medium 
Density Residential 

and 
Development 
Ancillary Residential 
Structures

3.1
Application

3.1 Application 

Part 3 sets out the following:

 – Desired future character of low and medium density residential neighbourhoods;

 – General Requirements for all Types of Residential Development in areas zoned 

R2, R3, R4 and R5;

 – Development controls for the following ancillary residential structures in areas 
zoned R2, R3, R4 and R5  where they are associated with low and medium density 

residential development:

• 

• 

• 

fencing;

outbuildings; and 

swimming pools/spas;

 – Development controls for the following low density residential development in  

areas zoned R2, R3, R4 and R5 :

•  dwelling houses in areas zoned R2 and R3;

• 

secondary dwellings in areas zoned R2, R3, R4 and R5;

•  dual  occupancies  (attached  and  detached)  in  areas  zoned  R2  and  R3  and 

dual occupancies (attached) in areas zoned R5;

semi-detached dwellings in areas zoned R2 and R3; 

attached dwellings in areas zoned R2;and 

• 

• 

•  multi dwelling housing in areas zoned R2;

 –

 Development controls for the following medium density residential development 

in areas zoned R3 :

• 

attached dwellings in areas zoned R3; and

•  multi dwelling housing in areas zoned R3; and

 – Development controls for residential subdivision 

The design requirements contained within this part are to be read in conjunction with  

the provisions contained in Part 2 of Volume 1. 

Zone Acronyms

Note: 

R2 Low Density Residential: R2     

Numerical Development Standards 

R3 Medium Density Residential: R3  

for  floor  space  ratios,  building 

R4 High Density Residential: R4

R5 Large Lot Residential: R5 

heights,  qualifying  site  areas  and 

minimum subdivision  are provided 
under the CLEP.   

########Page64

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)The Structure of Part 3
Low and Medium Density Residential Development & Ancillary Residential Structures

3.1
Application  

3.4
General
Requirements

3.5
Ancillary 
Structures 

3.6
Low Density 

3.7
Medium Density 

3.8
Residential 
Subdivision 

Fencing

Dwelling Houses  

R2 & R3

R2, R3, R4 & R5

R2, R3, R4 
& R5

3.3 
Desired Future 
Character  
(Medium
 Density)

Outbuildings 

Secondary 
Dwellings

R2, R3, R4 & R5

3.2
 Desired Future 
Character 
(Low Density) 

Swimming
 Pools & Spas 

R2, R3, R4 & R5

Dual 
Occupancies 

Dual 
Occupancies 
(Detached)

Dual 
Occupancies 
(Attached) 

Semi-detached 
Dwellings 

Attached 
Dwellings

Multi Dwelling 
Housing 

R2 & R3 

R2, R3 & R5

R2 and R3

R2

R2

Attached 
Dwellings 

Multi 
Dwelling 
Housing 

R3

R3

########Page65

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015                                                                                       Effective:11/03/16 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2

Desired Future 
Character for  
Low Density 
Residential 
Neighbourhoods

3.2  Desired  Future  Character  for  Low  Density  Residential 
Neighbourhoods 

The low density residential neighbourhoods shall continue to be characterised by:

• 

• 

• 

• 

one and two storey dwelling houses that are designed to provide a high level of 

residential amenity for their occupants and the occupants of adjoining properties;

streetscapes  where  buildings  are  setback  from  the  primary  street  frontage  to 

provide opportunities for deep soil planting and landscaping; and

articulated  front  facades  where  garages  are  setback  and  do  not  dominate  the 

streetscapes; and

limited stock of multi dwelling housing and attached dwellings that:

respect the existing character of the low density neighbourhoods; and

are of low scale and density.

 –

 –

Note: 

For the purpose of this part, low density residential development means any of the 

following: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

a dwelling house;

a secondary dwelling; 

a dual occupancy (attached or detached);

a semi-detached dwelling; 

attached dwellings in areas zoned R2; or

•  multi dwelling housing in areas zoned R2.

Figure 3.2.1 - Examples 

of 

streetscapes 

within 

existing 

low 

density 

residential 

neighbourhoods of Glen 

Alpine and Raby.

########Page66

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
3.3  Desired  Future  Character  for  Medium  Density  Residential 
Neighbourhoods 

The medium density residential neighbourhoods shall be characterised by:

•  medium  density  housing  comprising  two  storey    attached  dwellings  and  multi 
dwelling housing  in a landscaped setting with additional habitable areas provided 

within the roof space;

•  development  footprints  that  are  sited  to  achieve  setbacks  to  boundaries  and 

provide for  landscaping and private open space;

3.3
Desired Future 
Character 
for  
Medium Density 
Residential 
Neighbourhoods

• 

• 

• 

• 

articulated front facades where garages and car parking spaces are setback and 

do not dominate the streetscapes; 

 active residential facades with balconies;

soft landscaping along communal driveways and the front boundary;

a high standard of architectural merit and urban design quality buildings; and

•  development that incorporates a mix of dwelling sizes to provide housing choice. 

Note: 

Note: 

For  the  purpose  of  this  part,  medium 

density  residential  development  means 

any of the following: 

Clause  7.13  Design  Excellence  of  the 

CLEP  applies  to  zones  R3,  R4,  B2, 

B3  and  B4  and  aims  to  deliver  the 

• 

attached  dwellings  in  areas 

highest  standard  of  architectural  and 

zoned R3; or

urban  design,  as  part  of  the  built 

•  multi  dwelling  housing  in 

areas zoned R3.

environment.  

Figure  3.3.1  - 

Examples  of  a 

medium  density 

development. 

########Page69

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.4
General 
Requirements 
for all Types 
of Residential 
Development 

3.4.1
Building Form 
& Character   

3.4 General Requirements for Low and Medium Density Residential 
Development  - Zones R2, R3, R4 and R5

This  Section  provides  general  development  controls  for  low  and  medium  density 

residential developments within  areas zoned  R2, R3, R4 and R5. 

3.4.1  Building Form and Character  

Objectives: 

 ■ Ensure that the massing and scale of new development are complementary to 

the desired future character of residential neighbourhoods. 

 ■ Ensure that buildings are designed to enhance the existing and future desired 
built form and character of the neighbourhood by encouraging innovative and 

quality designs that fit harmoniously with their surroundings.

 ■ Ensure  that  parking  areas,  garages  and  driveways  are  appropriately  sited, 
designed and constructed so that they do not detract from the appearance of 

the development or the streetscape.

 ■ Ensure the provision of equitable access to natural light and ventilation for the 

occupants of all residential dwellings.

3.4.1.1 Streetscape

Design Requirements

a)  Building  design 

(including 

facade 

treatment,  massing,  roof  design  and 

entrance 

features), 

setbacks  and 

landscaping  shall  complement  the 

scale of development, and the desired 

future  character  of  the  residential 

neighbourhoods.

b)  Development  on  corner  sites  shall 
incorporate  facade  treatments  that 

address  both  street  frontages  and 

achieve positive articulation in building 

design.  Landscaping  shall  be  used 

to  reduce  the  impact  of  any  privacy 

fencing.

c)  The  built  form  shall  relate  to  the 

natural landform and setting.

d)  On-site parking areas shall be designed 
the  visual 

reduce 

sited 

and 

to 

Note: 

Numerical Development Standards 

for  floor  space  ratios,  building 

heights,  qualifying 

site  areas 

and  subdivision  for  residential 

development    are  provided  under 

the CLEP.

Note:

 Under the provisions of the CLEP:

• 

Secondary  dwellings  are  the 
only  type  of  low  density 

residential 

development 

that are permissible on areas 

zoned R4; and

•  Attached 

dwellings 

and 

multi  dwelling  housing  are  

prohibited  within 

areas 

zoned R4. 

prominence  of    garage  doors  and 

########Page70

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)external  parking  spaces    as  viewed 

from the street or other public place. 

e)  Garage  doors  facing  a  public  street 
shall  not  be  wider  than  50%  of  the 

Note: 

width of the building’s facade fronting 

the street (refer to Figures 3.4.1.1).

Additional controls for landscaping, 

weed  management,  erosion  and 

f)  No  carports 

  or  garages  (or 

like 

sediment  controls,  cut  and  fill, 

structures)  shall  be  located  within  6 

water  cycle  management  and 

metres of the primary street boundary, 

retaining walls are included under 

for additional requirements of setbacks 

Part 2 of Volume 1 of the Plan.  

3.4
General 
Requirements 
for all Types 
of Residential 
Development 

3.4.1
Building Form 
& Character   

for  the  various  types  of  residential 

development  refer  to  section  3.5,3.6 

and 3.7 of this part of the plan.

g)  No bathroom, ensuite, toilet or laundry 
windows  shall  face  the  primary  street 

of an allotment.

3.4.1.2 Building Height

a)  The  height  of  development  shall  not 
result in any significant loss of amenity 

(including  loss  of  solar  access  and 

visual and acoustic privacy) to adjacent 

properties and public places.

3.4.1.3 Advertising Material 

a)  As part of the letter box design for multi 
dwelling  housing  a  special  container 

shall be provided for the placement of 

advertising  and  newspaper  materials. 

Such container shall be located behind 

the  building  line  and  designed  to  be 

part of the letter box arrangement for 

the development. 

b)  The 

newspaper/advertisement 
container shall be regularly emptied by 

the manager/caretaker of the building.

Figure  3.4.1.1 

-  Example  of  a 

streetscape with various architectural 

features.

Note: 

For  additional  requirements  on 

setbacks  for  the  various  types  of 

residential  development, 

refer 

to sections 3.5,3.6 and 3.7 of the 

Plan.

########Page71

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.4
General 
Requirements 
for all 
Types of 
Residential 
Development 

3.4.2
Car Parking 
& Access    

3.4.2  Car Parking and Access 

Objectives: 

 ■ Provide adequate on-site car parking for residents and visitors that is convenient, 
secure  and  safe  having  regard  to  the  traffic  generated  by  the  proposed 

development.

 ■ Ensure efficient and safe vehicle and pedestrian movement within, into and out 

of the development.

 ■ Ensure  that  the  location  and  design  of  driveways,  parking,  service  areas  and 
access  areas  are  practical,  easily  maintained,  convenient,  safe  and  suitably 

landscaped.

 ■ Provide  safe  convenient  access  for  vehicles,  pedestrians  and  cyclists  whilst 

minimising conflict between them.

Design Requirements

a)  The  minimum  dimensions  of  any 
required  parking  space  shall  be  2.5 

metres x 5.5 metres. If the car parking 

space  adjoins  a  vertical  edge  which  is 

m
6

b
r
e
K

100mm  or  higher,  the  minimum  width 

Tangent Point

of  the  car  parking  space  shall  be  2.7 

metres.

Kerb

6 m

t
e
e
r
t

S

Boundary

b)  The minimum internal dimension of an 
enclosed  garage  shall  be  3  metres  x  6 

metres.

6 m

Boundary

6 m

Figure  3.4.2.1  –  Restricted  locations  of 

c)  Transitional 

grades 

shall 

comply 

driveways entry  as shown  heavy  edged 

with  AS2890.1  (as  amended)  Parking 

lines.

Facilities - Off-Street Car Parking. 

d)  The maximum garage floor levels (above 
or below) for a garage setback 6 metres 
from the front property boundary  shall 
be in accordance with the requirements 
contained  under  Council’s  Engineering 
Guide for Development, (Appendix K - 
Standard Drawings No. SD-R08 and SD-
R09),  which  is  available  at  Council’s 
website at www.campbeltown.nsw.gov.

au.

e)  Driveways  greater  than  30  metres  in 
length as viewed from the street shall 

be avoided.

f)  Driveways shall be located a minimum 

########Page72

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
distance of 6 metres from the tangent 

point  of  any  unsignalled  intersection 

(refer to Figure 3.4.2.1).

Note: 

In 

circumstances  where 

an 

intersection  is  controlled  by  lights,  a 

roundabout  or  the  like,  applicants  are 

requested  to  contact  Council  for  specific 
requirements. 

g)  The  minimum  width  of  the  driveway 

at the street kerb shall be:

i)  2.5  metres  where  the  driveway 
(1) 

provides  access 

for  one 

dwelling; and

ii)  5  metres  where  a  single  driveway 
provides access for two (2) or more 

dwellings 

(excluding 

secondary 

dwellings).

Note: For additional technical specifications 

relating  to  the  location,  gradient  and 

driveway  widths 

refer 

to  Council’s 

Engineering  Guide 

for  Development 

available  at  Council’s  website  at  www.

campbeltown.nsw.gov.au

h)  For 

residential 

developments 

incorporating more than 20 dwellings, 

a  Traffic  Impact  Assessment  Report 

shall  be  prepared  by  a  suitably 

qualified  person  and  submitted  with 

the development application. 

Figure 3.4.2.2 – Example of a driveway 

that  is  of  appropriate  width  and 

located perpendicular to the road. 

Note:  For  requirements  relating  to  the 

preparation of a Traffic Impact Assessment 

Note: 

Report refer to Appendix 12.

i)  Driveways  shall  be  designed  and 
located  perpendicular  to  the  road 

(Figure 3.4.2. 2 ).

j)  Plain  concrete  driveways  including 
crossover  and  layback  shall  not  be 

permitted. Details of driveway colours 

and  patterns  shall  be  submitted  with 

the development application. 

Council will not be liable to replace 

any  driveway  colour  or  pattern 

within  public  land  in  cases  where 

damage  to  private  driveways  as 

a  result  of  maintenance  work 

undertaken 

by 

Council 

has 

occurred.

3.4
General 
Requirements 
for all 
Types of 
Residential 
Development 

3.4.2
Car Parking 
& Access    

########Page73

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.4.3 Acoustic and Visual Privacy 

Objective: 

 ■ Provide adequate visual and acoustic privacy for residents of new and existing 

Note: 

Development  Near  Rail  Corridors 

and  Busy  Roads 
Interim 
Guideline  provides  a  useful  guide 
for  all  development  that  may  be 

– 

impacted by rail corridors or busy 

roads .

Note: 

The installation of air-conditioning 

units  may  be  undertaken  as 

exempt  development  under  the 

E&CDC SEPP, providing that certain 

criteria are met. 

development.

3.4.3.1 Acoustic Privacy

Design Requirements 

a)  Development  that  adjoins  significant 
noise  sources,  (such  as  main  roads, 

commercial/industrial 

development, 

public 

transport 

interchanges  and 

railways)  shall  be  designed  to  achieve 

acceptable internal noise levels, based 

on recognised Australian Standards and 
any criteria and standards regulated by 
a relevant State Government Authority. 

b)  Development 

shall 

incorporate 

noise  attenuation  measures  that  are 

compatible  with  the  scale,  form  and 

character of the street. 

c)  On-site  noise 

generating 

sources 

including,  but  not  limited  to,  plant 

rooms and equipment, air conditioning 

units, pool pumps, and recreation areas 

shall be designed and located to ensure 

that the noise levels generated by such 

facilities  do  not  exceed  5  dBA  above 

background 

levels  at  the  property 

boundary. 

d)  Multi  dwelling  housing  and  attached 
dwellings  near  railway  corridors  and 

major  roads  shall  demonstrate  to 

Council’s 

satisfaction 

  compliance 

with  the  requirements  under  the 
Guidelines  entitled  Development  Near 
Rail Corridors and Busy Roads – Interim 
Guideline, 2008)

Note:  This  Guide  is  available  for  view/

download  from  the  NSW  Department  of 
Planning  &  Environment  website  at:  www.

planning.nsw.gov.au.

3.4
General 
Requirements 
for all Type 
of Residential 
Development 

3.4.3
Acoustic  
& 
Visual Privacy     

########Page74

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Note:  Applicants  are  encouraged  to  refer 

to  the  Office  of  Environment  and  Heritage 

Environmental  Criteria  for  Road  Traffic 

Noise.

3.4.3.2 Visual Privacy

Design Requirements

a)  No  window  of  a  habitable  room  or 
balcony  shall  directly  face  a  window 

of  another  habitable  room,  balcony  or 

private open space of another dwelling 

located within 6 metres of the proposed 

window or balcony unless appropriately 

screened (refer to Figure 3.4.3.1).  

b)  Notwithstanding  Clause  3.4.3.2a)  any 
window of a living room located on an 

upper level shall:

i)  be  offset  by  2  metres  to  limit               
and 

between  windows 

views 

balconies; or    

ii)  have  a  sill  height  1.7  metres  above 
the floor level; or                      

iii) be  splayed  to  avoid  direct  views  

between windows; or   

iv)  have  fixed  translucent  glazing  in       

any part of the window within 1.7   

metres of the floor level.

c)  Notwithstanding  3.4.3.2a),  a  balcony 
will  be  considered  where  the  private 

Figure  3.4.3.1  –  Illustrations  of  a 

method  to  offset  windows  to  avoid 

open  space  area  of  any  adjacent 

potential privacy conflict.

dwelling is screened from view.

d)  No  wall  of  a  proposed  building  shall 
be  permitted  to  be  constructed  on 

the  boundary  for  that  portion  of  the 

boundary  that  is  directly  adjacent  to 

an existing required private open space 

area on the adjoining allotment.

3.4
General 
Requirements 
for all Types 
of Residential 
Development 

3.4.3
Acoustic  
& 
Visual Privacy     

########Page75

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.4
General 
Requirements 
for all Types 
of Residential 
Development 

3.4.4
Solar 
Access 

3.4.4 Solar Access  

Objectives: 

 ■ Encourage building design and siting to take advantage of climatic factors and 

reduce household energy consumption.

 ■ Encourage features to be incorporated into site and building design to optimise 

passive solar access to internal and external spaces.

Design Requirements

a)  Living  areas  shall  generally  have  a 

northerly orientation.

b)  A  minimum  20sqm  fixed  area  of  the 
required  private  open  space  shall 

receive  three  (3)  hours  of  continuous 

direct solar access on  21 June, between 

9.00am and 3.00pm, when measured at 

ground level.

c)  Development  shall  have  appropriate 
regard to the impact on solar access to 

useable  private  open  space  and  living 

areas,  solar  collectors  and  clothes 

drying  areas  of  adjoining  residential 

development.

d)  Building 

siting 

shall 

take 

into 

consideration  the  range  of  factors 

that  impact  on  solar  access  including 

slope  of  land,  vegetation  and  existing 

building and other structures.  

North

Figure  3.4.4.1  –  Desirable  range  of 

window  orientation  for  north  facing 

Note:  Council  may    consider  the  use 

windows.

of  deciduous  trees  at  the  north  and 

west  elevations  to  protect  against  hot 

summer  temperature  and  to  allow  for 

solar  penetration  in  winter,  where  it  may 

otherwise be inappropriate to plant native 

trees.

########Page76

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.5
Ancillary 
Residential 
Structures

3.5.1
Fencing 

3.5 Ancillary Residential Structures - Zones R2, R3, R4 and R5   

This section applies to ancillary residential structures including outbuildings, swimming 

pools/spas and fencing in areas zoned R2, R3, R4 and R5, where these type of developments 

are associated with low and medium density residential development.

3.5.1 Fencing 

Objectives: 

 ■ To ensure that  front fencing  design complements the  character and streetscape 

of residential neighbourhoods. 

Design Requirements 

a)  Bonded  sheet  metal  fencing  shall  not 
be  constructed  at  any  location  other 

than  along  side  and  rear  boundaries 

shared  with  other  private  property, 

where such fencing is not highly visible 

Note: 

Refer to Section 1.4 Definitions

from the street, public reserve or other 

Part 1 Volume 1 for a definition of 

public place, unless the site is within a 

a building line under the plan. 

bushfire prone area.

b)  Residential  fencing  along  the  rear  and 

side boundaries shall be:

i)  located  behind  the  primary  street 

building line; 

ii)  a  maximum  2.1  metres  in  height 
(excluding retaining walls); and

iii) a maximum 1.8 metres in height, if 

adjoining a secondary street.

c)  Front  residential  fencing  shall  be  a 
maximum  of  1.2  metres  in  height 

Figure  3.5.1.1  -  Example  of  a  part 

masonry/part 

timber 

fence 

that 

and  complement  the  design  of  the 

helps  to  define  private  space  and 

development.

adds interest to the character of the 

streetscape.

d)  Fencing on corner allotments shall not 
obstruct  the  sight  distance  of  traffic 

entering  or  within  an  intersection  or 

roundabout. 

e)  Fencing  shall  not  obstruct  power, 
water, sewer, gas or telephone services, 

drainage  systems,  (including  overland 

flow paths) or any easements or rights 

########Page77

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.5
Ancillary 
Residential 
Structures

of way.

f)  Details  for  fencing  shall  be  submitted 
with the development application.

3.5.2 Outbuildings

3.5.2
Outbuildings  

Objectives: 

 ■ To ensure that the siting and size of outbuildings do not adversely impact on the 

residential amenity of adjoining residential property. 

 ■ Ensure  location  and  design  of  ancillary  residential  structures  minimises  the 

impact upon the environment and preserve existing trees.

3.5.2.1  General Requirements 

a)  Outbuildings  shall:

i)  incorporate 

similar 

or   

features, 
complementary  design 
finishes,  materials  and  colours  to 

those  of  the  principal    dwelling 

house;

ii)  not  contain  any  other  sanitary 
fixtures  other  than  a  toilet  and  a 

hand basin; and 

iii) not  be  used  for  any  habitable, 
commercial or industrial purpose.

3.5.2.2    Maximum  Floor  Area  for  
Outbuildings

a)  The  combined  areas  of  all    ‘detached’ 
outbuildings  (including  carports  and 

garages)  shall be a maximum of 55sqm.

3.5.2.3  Setbacks for Outbuildings  

a)  Outbuildings    shall  be  setback  by  a 

minimum of:

i)  6  metres    from  the  primary  street 

boundary; 

ii)  3  metres 

from 

the 

secondary 

street  boundary  for  all  domestic 

outbuildings  other  than  any  garage 

that  is  accessed  directly  from  the 

secondary street;

iii) 5.5 metres from the secondary street 
boundary for the garage, where the 

garage is accessed directly from the 

########Page78

Figure  3.5.2.1.1  An  example  of  a 

pergola with a zero setback from the 

rear boundary.

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
secondary street;

iv)  0.45  metres 
boundaries;

from 

the 

side 

v)  despite  3.5.2.3  a)  iv),  zero  metres 
from  the  side  and  rear  boundaries 

for open structures such as pergolas, 

carports  and  awnings,  subject  to 

compliance with the BCA; and

vi)  0.90 metres from rear boundary.

3.5.3 Swimming  Pools/Spas 

Objectives: 

 ■ Ensure that the location and design of swimming pools/spas minimises  adverse 
impacts on the amenity of adjoining properties, particularly in relation to noise, 

privacy, drainage, visibility of pools and lighting.

3.5
Ancillary 

Residential 

Structures

3.5.3

Swimming 

Pools/Spas 

3.5.3.1  General Requirements

a)  Safety fencing for Swimming pools/spas 
shall  comply  with  the  Swimming  Pools 
Act  1992,  Swimming  Pools  Regulation 

2008  and  the  Australian  Standard 

1926.1  -  2012  -  Swimming  Pool  Safety 

(As amended).

3.5.3.2  Setbacks 

a)  Swimming  pools/spas  shall  be  located 
behind the front primary street building 

setback.

b)  Swimming  pools/spas  that  do  not 
incorporate  decking/coping  greater 

than  600  mm  above  natural  ground 

level  at  any  point  shall  be  setback  a 

minimum of:

i)  1  metre  from  the  rear  and  side 

boundaries; and

ii)  1  metre 

from 

the 

secondary  

boundary(corner allotments).

c)  The 

setback 

requirements  under  

Clause  3.5.3.2  b)  shall  be  inclusive  of  

any decking/coping associated with the 

pool ( i.e. the minimum 1 metre setback 

shall be calculated from the edge of the 

Figure 3.5.3.1 – Illustration of a fenced 

pool.

########Page79

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.5
Ancillary 

Residential 

Structures

3.5.3

Swimming 

Pools/Spas 

decking/coping  to  the  side  boundary, 

rear or secondary boundary). 

d)  Swimming  pools/spas  that  incorporate 
decking/coping  greater  than  600mm 

above natural ground level at any point 

shall  be setback a minimum of: 

i)  5.5 metres  from the primary street 

boundary; 

ii)  3  metres  from  the  secondary  street 

boundary;  

iii) 1.5  metres  from  the  side  and  rear 

boundaries.

e)  Adequate 

measures 

shall 

be 

implemented  to  ensure  the  amenity 

(noise/privacy)  of adjoining neighbours 

is maintained. 

f)  The  pool  pump/filter  shall  be  located 
as  far  away  as  practicable  from 

neighbouring  dwellings  and  shall  be 

enclosed  in  an  acoustic  enclosure  to 

minimise  noise  impacts  on  adjoining 

properties. 

########Page80

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.6
Low Density 
Residential 
Development 

3.6 Low Density Residential Development - Zones  R2, R3, R4 & R5

This section applies to:

•  dwelling houses in areas zoned R2 and R3;

• 

secondary dwellings in areas zoned R2, R3, R4 and R5;

•  dual occupancies (attached and/or detached) in areas zoned R2, R3 and R5

• 

• 

semi-detached dwellings in areas zoned R2 and R3;

attached wellings in areas zoned R2; and 

•  multi dwelling housing in areas zoned R2.

Important Note: 

Numerical Development Standards for floor space ratios , building heights, qualifying 

site areas and subdivision for residential development are provided under the CLEP.

Figure 3.6.1 -  Examples of low density residential development. 

########Page81

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.1

Dwelling 

Houses  

3.6.1 Dwelling Houses - Zones R2 & R3 

Objectives: 

 ■ Encourage quality-designed dwelling houses that make a positive contribution to 

the streetscape and amenity of the neighbourhood.

3.6.1.1 Site Requirement 

Note:

a)  A dwelling house shall not be erected on 
land with an average width  less than 15 

A  dwelling  house  (as  defined  under 

the CLEP) means a building containing 

metres (measured at the primary street 

only one dwelling.

building setback), unless the allotment 

was in existence at the date upon which 

Note: 

Refer to Section 4.1C of the CLEP for 

the minimum qualifying site area and 

lot sizes for dwelling houses.

Figure  3.6.1.1  -  Illustration  of  the  required 

setbacks for dwelling houses under the Plan 

the Plan came into effect.

3.6.1.2 Deep Soil Planting

a)  A  dwelling  house  shall  satisfy  the 
following  provisions  relating  to  deep 

soil planting:

i)  no more than 30% of the area forward 
of any building line shall be surfaced 

with impervious materials; and

ii)  a  minimum  of  20%  of  the  total  site 
area shall be available for deep soil 

planting.

3.6.1.3  Setbacks 

a)  A  dwelling  house  shall  be  setback  a 

minimum of:

i)  5.5  metres  from  the  primary  street 

boundary for the dwelling;

ii)  6.0  metres  from  the  primary  street 

boundary for the garage;

iii) 3  metres 

from 

the 

secondary                  

street boundary;

iv)  5.5 metres from the secondary street 
boundary for the garage, where the 

garage is accessed directly from the 

secondary street;

v)  0.9 metres from any side boundary; 

and    

vi)  3 metres from the rear boundary for 
any  part  of  the  building  that  is  up 

to 4.5 metres in height from ground 

level (existing); and

########Page82

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)vii) 8  metres  from  the  rear  boundary 
for  any  part  of  the  building  that  is 

higher than 4.5 metres from ground 

level (existing).

3.6.1.4 Car Parking Rates 

a)  A  dwelling  house  shall  be  provided 
with a minimum of one undercover car 

parking space.

3.6.1.5  Private Open Space 

a)  A dwelling house shall be provided with 
an area of private open space that:

i)  is located behind the primary                     

street building setback;      

Note:
Private  open  space  (as  defined 

under  the  CLEP)  means  an  area 

external  to  a  building  (including 

an  area  of  land,  terrace,  balcony 

or  deck)  that  is  used  for  private 

outdoor  purposes  ancillary  to  the 

ii)  has a minimum area of 75sqm;   

use of the building.

3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.1

Dwelling 

Houses  

Note: 
Clause  7.13  Design  Excellence 

of  the  CLEP  applies  to  zones  R3, 

R4,  B2,  B3  and  B4  and  aims  to 

deliver  the  highest  standard  of 

architectural and urban design, as 

part of the built environment.  

iii) has a minimum width of 3 metres;

iv)  includes a minimum levelled area of  

(5x5)sqm;

v)  has  a  minimum  unfragmented  area 

of 60sqm;

vi)  has  an  internal  living  room  directly 
accessible  to  the  outdoor  private 

open space areas; and 

vii) satisfies  solar  access  requirements 

contained in  section 3.4.4.

Note:  For  sloping  sites,  Council  may 

consider  the  provision  of  a  minimum  2 

metre  x  8  metre  balcony  as  part  of  the 

required  private  open  space  for  satisfying 

the requirements of Clause 3.6.1.5 a) v).

3.6.1.6  Waste Bin Requirements  

a)  Space  shall  be  allocated  behind  the 
primary  and  secondary  street  building 

lines and out of public view to store the 

following: 

i)  a 140 litre bin; and            

ii)  two (2) 240 litre bins

3.6.1.7 Site Services 

a)  The  location,  design  and  construction 
satisfy 
services 

utility 

shall 

of 

requirements  of  the  relevant  servicing 

authority and Council.

########Page83

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.2

Secondary 

Dwellings

b)  Adequate  provision  shall  be  made 
available  for  all  essential  services 

(i.e  water,  sewerage,  electricity,  gas, 

telephone,  internet  and  stormwater 

drainage).

c)  All  site  services  shall  be  placed 

underground.

d)  All  communication  dishes,  antennae 
and the like shall be located to minimise 

visual prominence.

3.6.2 Secondary Dwellings - Zones  R2, R3, R4 and R5

Objectives: 

 ■ Ensure that secondary dwelling development is of a small scale. 

 ■ Ensure  that  secondary  dwellings  do  not  adversely  impact  on  the  amenity  of 

adjoining properties. 

3.6.2.1  General Requirements

a)  A  secondary  dwelling  shall  incorporate 
complementary  design 

similar  or 

Note: 
Secondary  dwelling  (as  defined 

under  the  CLEP)  means  a  self-

and  construction  features,  finishes, 

contained dwelling that:

materials  and  colours  to  those  of  the 

a) 

is 

established 

in 

principal dwelling house.

b)  A secondary dwelling shall be designed 
to  ensure  that  the  entry  door  to  the 

secondary  dwelling  is  not  visible  from 

the street or other public place. 

c)  A  BASIX  certificate  shall  accompany 
for  a 

a  development  application 

secondary dwelling.

d)  An  attached  secondary  dwelling  shall    
be located under the same roof as the 

main  part  of  the  principal  dwelling 

house.

3.6.2.2 Setbacks

conjunction  with  another 

dwelling 

(the  principal 

dwelling), and

b)  is  on  the  same  lot  of  land 
as  the  principal  dwelling, 

and

c) 

is  located  within,  or  is 

attached to, or is separate 

from, 

the 

principal 

dwelling. 

Note: 
Clause 5.4 (9)  Secondary Dwelling 

of the CLEP requires the total floor 

a)  A  secondary  dwelling  land  shall  be 

area  of  the  secondary  dwelling 

setback a minimum of:

i)  5.5  metres  from  the  primary  street 

boundary of the dwelling;

ii)  3 metres from the secondary street 

boundary; 

iii) 0.9 metres from any side boundary; 

(excluding  any  area  used  for 

parking)  to  not  exceed  whichever 

of the following is the greater:

i)  60 square metres,

ii)  25 % of the total floor area 
of the principal dwelling.

########Page84

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)and    

iv)  3 metres from the rear boundary for 
any  part  of  the  building  that  is  up 

to 3.8 metres in height from ground 

level (existing); and

v)  8 metres from the rear boundary for 
any part of the building that is higher 

than  3.8  metres  from  ground  level 

(existing).

Note: 
Nothing  in  the  Plan  shall  be 

taken to mean that a secondary 

dwelling  can  be  subdivided  

from    the  principal  dwelling 

on  the  allotment    unless  such 

a  subdivision 

is  consistent 

with 

relevant  development 

standards under the CLEP.

3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.2

Secondary 

Dwellings

Rear of the dwelling

Access to personal 
open space

Main Dwelling 
House

kitchen

Optional entrance 
from the main 
principal 

dwelling

Maximum area
60 sqm

Entrance

Under the same roof'
as the main part 
principal dwelling
house

                 of the 

Toilet & Laundry

Bedroom

External 
access
not visible 
from the 
primary
street

Main entrance

Street  

Figure  3.6.2.1  –  Illustration  of  an 

attached secondary dwelling

########Page85

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.6
Low Density 

3.6.3 Dual Occupancies (Attached or Detached)- Zones R2, R3 & R5   

Residential 

Objectives: 

Development 

 ■ Encourage quality-designed  dual occupancies that make a positive contribution 

to the streetscape and amenity of the neighbourhood.

3.6.3

Dual 

Occupancies 

(Attached or 

Detached) 

 ■ Ensure that  dual occupancies offer a high standard of amenity for its occupants 

and maintains the amenity of adjoining residents.

3.6.3.1 General Requirements

Note:

a)  Dual  occupancies 

shall  only  be 

Dual  occupancy  (as  defined  under 

permitted on an allotment having:   

the CLEP) means a dual occupancy 

i)  a  minimum  width  of  15  metres 
measured along the side boundaries 

(attached)  or  a  dual  occupancy 

(detached).

at a distance of 5.5 metres from the 

Dual  occupancy  (attached)  (as 

primary street boundary; and    

defined  under  the  CLEP)  means 

ii)  a  minimum  width  of  7  metres  
measured  between  the  extended 

property  side  boundaries,  or  in  the 

case  of  a  corner  allotment,  the 

2  dwellings  on  one  lot  of  land 

that  are  attached  to  each  other, 

but  does  not  include  a  secondary 

dwelling. 

secondary  street  boundaries  where 

Dual  occupancy  (detached)  (as 

they  intersect  with  the  kerb  line 

defined  under  the  CLEP)  means 

(refer to Figure 3.6.3.1).

3.6.3.2 Setbacks 

a)  A  dual  occupancy  shall  be  setback  a 

minimum of:

i)  5.5  metres  from  the  primary  street 
boundary for the dual occupancy;

ii)  6.0  metres  from  the  primary  street 
boundary for the garage or the under 

cover parking space;

iii) 3 metres from the  secondary street 

boundary; 

iv)  5.5  metres  from  the  secondary 
street  boundary  for  the  garage  or 

the undercover parking space, where 

the garage is accessed directly from 

the secondary street;

v)  0.9 metres from any side boundary; 

and    

vi)   3 metres from the rear boundary for 
any  part  of  the  building  that  is  up 

2  detached  dwellings  on  one  lot 

of  land,  but  does  not  include  a 

secondary dwelling. 

Note: 

Refer to Section 4.1C of the CLEP 

for  the  minimum  qualifying  site 

area for dual occupancies.

Min linear distance

15.0m

15.0 m

5.5m

5.5

m

7.0 m

i n e

l

r b  

K e

Min linear 
distance of 
7.0m

Property 

boundary

Figure  3.6.3.1  – 

Illustration  of  the 

requirements for the minimum  allotment  

frontage incorporating a dual occupancy.

########Page86

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)to 4.5 metres in height from ground 

level (existing); and

vii) 8 metres from the rear boundary for 
any part of the building that is higher 

than  4.5  metres  from  ground  level 

(existing).

3.6.3.3  Car Parking Rates   

a)  Each  dwelling  that  is  part  of  a  dual 
shall  be 

occupancy  development 

provided  with  a  minimum  of  one  (1) 

single garage.

3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.3

Dual 

Occupancies 

(Attached or 

Figure  3.6.3.1  –  An  example  of  a 

contemporary  design  of  an  attached 

Detached) 

3.6.3.4  Private Open Space 

dual occupancy

a)  Each  dwelling  that  is  part  of  a  dual 
occupancy  shall  be  provided  with  an 

area of private open space that:

i)  is located behind the primary                     

building setback;      

Note:

Private  open  space  (as  defined 
under  the  CLEP)  means  an  area 

ii)  has a minimum area of 60 sqm;   

external  to  a  building  (including 

iii) has a minimum width of 3 metres;

iv)  includes a minimum levelled area of  

(5x5) sqm;

v)  has a minimum unfragmented area of 

40 sqm;

vi)  has  an  internal  living  room  directly 
accessible  to  outdoor  the  private 

open space areas; and 

vii) satisfies  solar  access  requirements 
contained  in    Section  3.4.4.  of  the  

the Plan.

an  area  of  land,  terrace,  balcony 

or  deck)  that  is  used  for  private 

outdoor  purposes  ancillary  to  the 

use of the building. 

Note: 
Clause  7.13  Design  Excellence 

of  the  CLEP  applies  to  zones  R3, 

R4,  B2,  B3  and  B4  and  aims  to 

deliver  the  highest  standard  of 

architectural and urban design, as 

3.6.3.5  Presentation to Public Streets

part of the built environment.  

a)  Where  a  dual  occupancy  development 
involves  the  retention  of  an  existing 

dwelling  ,  the    existing  dwelling    shall 

be  renovated  to  match  the  colour, 

material,  texture  and  architectural 

style  of  the  proposed  building  so  as  to 

create a harmonious development.

3.6.3.6  Landscaping  and  Deep  Soil 
Planting

a)  A  development  application  for  a  dual 
occupancy  shall  include  a  detailed 

########Page87

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

landscape  plan  prepared  by  a  suitably 

qualified person. 

b)  A  dual  occupancy  shall  satisfy  the 
following  provisions  relating  to  deep 

Development 

soil planting:

3.6.3

Dual 

Occupancies 

(Attached or 

Detached) 

i)  no more than 30% of the area forward 
of any building line shall be surfaced 

with impervious materials; and

ii)  a  minimum  of  20%  of  the  total  site 
area shall be available for deep soil 

planting.

3.6.3.7  Waste Bins Requirements  

a)  Space  shall  be  allocated  behind  the 
primary  and  secondary  building  lines 

and  out  of  public  view  to  store  the 

following for each dwelling: 

i)  a 140 litre bin; and            

ii)  two (2) 240 litre bins.

3.6.3.8 Site Services 

a)  The  location,  design  and  construction 
satisfy 
services 

utility 

shall 

of 

requirements  of  the  relevant  servicing 

authority and Council.

b)  Adequate  provision  shall  be  made 
available  for  all  essential  services 

(i.e  water,  sewerage,  electricity,  gas, 

telephone,  internet  and  stormwater 

drainage).

c)  All  site  services  shall  be  placed 

underground.

d)  All  communication  dishes,  antennae 
and the like shall be located to minimise 

visual prominence.

########Page88

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.4

Semi-Detached 

Dwellings 

3.6.4 Semi-detached Dwellings -  Zones R2 & R3 

Objectives: 

 ■ Encourage  quality-designed  semi-detached  dwellings  that  make  a  positive 

contribution to the streetscape and amenity of the neighbourhood.

 ■ Ensure that  semi-detached dwellings offer a high standard of amenity for its 

occupants and maintains the amenity of adjoining residents.

3.6.4.1 General Requirements 
a)  Semi-Detached  Dwelling  shall  only  be 
permitted on an allotment having;   

i)  a  minimum  width  of  7.5  metres  
measured  between  the  extended 

Note:
Semi-detached dwellings (as 
defined under the CLEP)  means 

a dwelling that is on its own lot 

of land and is attached to only 

property  side  boundaries,  or  in  the 

one other dwelling.

case  of  a  corner  allotment,  the 

secondary  street  boundaries  where 

Note: 

they intersect with the kerb line.

b)  Despite Clause 3.6.4.1 a)  above,  semi-
detached dwellings shall be permitted 

Refer  to  Section  4.1C  of  the 

CLEP  for  the  minimum  qualifying 

site  area  and  lot  sizes  for  semi-

on  an  allotment  having  a  minimum 

detached dwellings

width  less  than  7.5  metres  where 

each individual lot existed prior to the 

commencement of the CLEP.

3.6.4.2  Setbacks 

a)  Semi-detached  dwellings 
setback a minimum of:

shall  be 

i)  5.5 metres from the primary street 
boundary  for  the  semi-detached 

dwellings;

ii)  6.0 metres from the primary street 
boundary for the garage or the under 

cover parking space;

iii) 3 metres from the secondary street 

boundary;

iv)  5.5  metres  from  the  secondary 
street boundary for the garage or the 

undercover  parking  space,  where 

the garage is accessed directly from 




















































































































































the secondary street;





v)  0.9 metres from any side boundary, 
for  the  part  of  the  building  that  is 

not attached to the other dwelling; 

and    



Figure  3.6.4.1  – 

Illustration  of  the 

setbacks requirements for semi-detached 

dwellings.

########Page89

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.4

Semi-Detached 

Dwellings 

vi)  3 metres from the rear boundary for 
any  part  of  the  building  that  is  up 

to 4.5 metres in height from ground 

level (existing); and

vii) 8 metres from the rear boundary for 
any part of the building that is higher 

than  4.5  metres  from  ground  level 

(existing) (refer to Figure 3.6.4.1).

3.6.4.3  Car Parking Rates 

a)  Each  dwelling  that  is  part  of  a  semi-
detached  dwelling    development  shall 

be provided with of minimum of one (1) 

single garage.

3.6.4.4  Private Open Space 

a)  Each  dwelling  that  is  part  of  a    semi 
detached  dwelling  shall  be  provided 
with an area of private open space that:

Note:

Private open space (as defined under 
the CLEP) means an area external to 

a building (including an area of land, 

terrace, balcony or deck) that is used 

for private outdoor purposes ancillary 

to the use of the building. 

Note: 
Clause 7.13 Design Excellence of the 

CLEP  applies  to  zones  R3,  R4,  B2, 

B3  and  B4  and  aims  to  deliver  the 

i)  is located behind the primary                     

highest standard of architectural and 

building setback;      

urban  design,  as  part  of  the  built 

environment.  

ii)  has a minimum area of 60 sqm;   

iii) has a minimum width of 3 metres;

iv)  includes a minimum levelled area of  

(5x5)sqm;

v)  has  a  minimum  unfragmented  area 

of 40sqm;

vi)  has  an  internal  living  room  directly 
accessible  to  outdoor  private  open 

space areas; and 

vii) satisfies  solar  access  requirements 

contained in  section 3.4.4.

3.6.4.5  Presentation to Public Streets

a)  Where  a  development  involves  the 
construction of an additional  dwelling 

to create a semi detached dwelling, the  

existing dwelling (where it is proposed 

to  be  retained)    shall  be  renovated  to 

match  the  colour,  material,  texture 

and architectural style of the proposed 

building  so  as  to  create  a  harmonious 
development.

3.6.4.6  Landscaping  and  Deep  Soil 
Planting

########Page90

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)a)  A  development  application  for  a  semi-
detached  dwellings  shall  include  a 

detailed  landscape  plan  prepared  by  a 

suitably qualified person. 

b)  A  semi  detached  dwelling  shall  satisfy 
the  following  provisions  relating  to 

deep soil planting:

i)  no more than 30% of the area forward 
of any building line shall be surfaced 

with impervious materials; and

ii)  a  minimum  of  20%  of  the  total  site 
area shall be available for deep soil 

planting.

3.6.4.7  Waste bins requirements  

a)  Space  shall  be  allocated  behind  the 
primary  and  secondary  building  lines 
and  out  of  public  view  to  store  the 

following for each dwelling: 

i)  a 140 litre bin; and            

ii)  two (2) 240 litre bins.

3.6.4.8 Site Services 

a)  The  location,  design  and  construction 
satisfy 
services 

utility 

shall 

of 

requirements  of  the  relevant  servicing 

authority and Council.

b)  Adequate  provision  shall  be  made 
available  for  all  essential  services 

(i.e  water,  sewerage,  electricity,  gas, 

telephone,  internet  and  stormwater 

drainage).

c)  All  site  services  shall  be  placed 

underground.

d)  All  communication  dishes,  antennae 
and the like shall be located to minimise 

visual prominence.

3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.4

Semi-Detached 

Dwellings 

########Page91

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.5

Attached 

Dwellings 

3.6.5  Attached Dwellings - Zones R2 Low Density Residential Zone 

Objectives: 

 ■ Encourage quality-designed attached dwellings  that make a positive contribution 

to the streetscape and amenity of the neighbourhood.

 ■ Ensure  that  attached  dwelling  housing  within  R2  zone  are  of  small  scale  and 

bulk.  

 ■ Ensure that attached dwellings  offer a high standard of internal and external 
amenity for its occupants and maintains the amenity of adjoining residents.

3.6.5.1 Site Requirements for Attached 
Dwellings - Zone R2

 Design Requirements

a)  Each  lot  of  land  for  each  attached 
dwelling  shall  have    a  minimum  width 
of 7.5 metres measured along the side 

boundaries at a distance of 5.5 metres 

from  the  primary  street  boundary 

unless  each  individual  allotment  is  in 

Note:

Attached dwellings (as defined under 
the  CLEP)  means  a  building  contain-
ing 3 or more dwellings, where:

a)  each  dwelling  is  attached  to 
another dwelling by a common 

wall, and

existence  prior  to  the  commencement 

b)  each  of  the  dwellings  is  on  its 

date of the CLEP. 

own lot of land, and

c)  none of the dwellings is located 
above  any  part  of  another 

dwelling. 

Note: 

Refer to Section 4.1C of the CLEP for 

the minimum qualifying site area and 

lot sizes for attached dwellings.

b)  Attached dwellings shall not be erected 
on an existing battle-axe allotment.

c)  With  any  development  application 
involving the construction of a building 

wall on a boundary, the creation of an 

easement  for  access  and  maintenance 

on the adjoining land may be required.

d)  Subject  to  the  satisfaction  of  other 
requirements  within  the  Plan,  the 
number  of  dwellings  permitted  within 
attached  dwelling  development  shall 

not exceed three (3)  dwellings within 

the R2 zone. 

e)  For  the  purpose  of  calculating  the 
developable area of an allotment:

i)  any 

land  that 

is  part  of  an 

environmental  corridor  as  specified 

by  the  Office  of  Environment  and 
Heritage  or  any  other  government 

agency; or

########Page92

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)ii)  any land that is subject to bushfire, 
flooding  or  other  risk  (excluding 

mine subsidence); or

iii) a right of carriage way;

shall not be included within the developable 

area of the allotment, unless  the  relevant  

public    agency  is    satisfied    that  these  

areas  are  capable  of  being  developed 

for  the  purpose  of  attached  dwellings.

3.6.5.2 
Dwellings - Zone R2

  Setbacks 

for  Attached 

a)  Attached  dwellings  shall  be  setback  a 

minimum of:

i)  5.5  metres  from  the  primary  street 

boundary;

ii)  6.0  metres  from  the  primary  street 
boundary for the garage or the under 

cover parking space;

iii) 3 metres from the secondary street 

boundary;

iv)  5.5  metres  from  the  secondary 
street boundary for the garage or the 

undercover  parking  space,  where 

the garage is accessed directly from 

the secondary street;

v)  0.9  metres  from  any  side  boundary 























3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.5

Attached 

Dwellings 
























































































































for the ground level;  





vi)  1.5  metres 
boundary 

for  all 

levels  above                   

from 

any 

side                   



the ground level; and    

Figure  3.6.5.1  – 

Illustration  of  the 

setbacks  requirements 

for  attached 

dwellings  - R2 Zone.

vii) 5 metres from the rear boundary for 
any  part  of  the  building  that  is  up 

to 4.5 metres in height from ground 

level (existing); and

viii) 10  metres  from  the  rear  boundary 
for  any  part  of  the  building  that  is 

higher than 4.5 metres from ground 

level  (existing)  (refer  to  Figure 

3.6.5.1).

3.6.5.3    The  Size  of  Indoor  Living 
Areas for Attached Dwellings - Zone R2

a)  The  indoor  living  areas  (i.e  family 

########Page93

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.5

Attached 

Dwellings 

room  and 

lounges)  within  each 

dwelling  contained  within  attached 

dwellings shall have a minimum of one  

unfragmented area that is not less than:

i)  (3x3)sqm  in  the  case  of  a  one 

bedroom dwelling;

ii)  (3.5x4)sqm square meters in the case 
of two or three bedroom dwelling;

iii) (4x5)sqm  in  case  of  four  or  more 

bedroom dwelling.

b)  For  the  purpose  of  this  clause,  the 
total  number  of  bedrooms  within  each 

dwelling shall include any room that is 

capable of being used as a bedroom (i.e 

study room).

3.6.5.4    Rear  Access  for  Attached 
Dwellings - Zone R2

a)  Where  there  is  no  access  to  a  rear 
lane  or  rear  street    directly  available 

from  the  back    of  attached  dwellings, 

each  dwelling  shall  be  provided  with 

a  separate  and  direct  access  from  the 

backyard to the front yard that does not 

pass through any habitable area of the 

dwelling  (Refer  to  Figure  3.6.5.2  for  a 
suggested design solution). 

b)  For the purpose of 3.6.5.4 a) above, the 
direct access from the rear to the front 

of  the  dwelling  shall  have  a  minimum 

width  of  0.9  metres  and  shall  not  be 

obstructed  by  hot  water  systems,  air 

conditioning units, gardens or anything 
that  may  result  in  the  obstruction  of 

the access way.  

3.6.5.5  Car Parking Rates for Attached 
Dwellings - Zone R2

a)  Each  dwelling  that  is  part  of  attached 
dwellings  shall  be  provided  with  a 

minimum of one (1) single garage.

b)  Despite Clause 3.6.5.5 a) above, where 
an  individual  allotment  is  in  existence 

before the date of gazettal of the CLEP 

and  has  a  width  less  than  7.5  metres, 

########Page94

Figure  3.6.5.2  – 

Illustration  of  an 

example of a design solution for  ‘rear to 

front’  access  requirement  for  attached 

dwellings at ground level.

Note: 

The requirement for the rear-to front 

access  is  to  enable  occupants  of  an 

attached  dwelling  to  move  organic 

waste bins, lawnmowers and the like 

from the backyard to the front of the 

building  without  the  need  to  pass 

through the main living areas. 

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)standard garages shall not be permitted 

on the primary street frontage.

c)  For  the  purpose  of  Clause  3.6.5.5  b) 
above,  covered  car  parking  spaces 

fronting  the  primary  street  shall  only 

be  provided  in  a  non-obtrusive  open 

type  design  so  as  not  to  detract  from 

the street facade of the development. 

3.6.5.6  Private  Open  Space 
Attached Dwellings - Zone R2

for 

3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.5

Attached 

Dwellings 

a)  Each dwelling that is part of attached 
be 
development 

dwelling 

shall 

provided with an area of private open 

space that:

i)  is located behind the primary                     

building setback;      

ii)  has a minimum area of 60 sqm;   

iii) has a minimum width of 3 metres;

iv)  includes a minimum levelled area of  

(5x5)sqm;

v)  has  a  minimum  unfragmented  area 

of 40sqm;

vi)  has an internal living room directly 
accessible  to  outdoor  private  open 

space areas; and 

vii) satisfies  solar  access  requirements 

contained in  section 3.4.4.

3.6.5.7  Presentation to Public Streets 
for Attached Dwellings - Zone R2

a)  Attached  dwelling  housing 

shall 
satisfy  the  following  architectural 
requirements:  

i)   a distinctive architectural  outcome 
that  unifies  the  range  of  building 

elements  and  diversity 

  within 

the  development  and  which  also 

harmonises 

with 

surrounding 

development;   

ii)  incorporation  of  variations  in  roof 
heights  and  wall  planes  to      avoid 

long unbroken ridge lines; 

iii) incorporation  of 

facade 

shifts 

########Page95

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.5

Attached 

Dwellings 

and  articulation,  varied  materials 

and  colours 

in  order  to  avoid                

duplication  of  the  same  building 

elements; and   

iv)  provision  of  windows  and    active 
spaces  in  the  building    ends,  to 

provide  additional 

security  and 

visual interest.

v)  architectural 
balconies, 

features 

(such  as 

openings, 

columns, 

porches,  colours,  materials    etc) 

and  articulation  in  walls  are    to  be 

incorporated into the front facade of 

each dwelling.

b)  Where  a  development  involves  the 
construction  of    additional    dwellings 

to  create  attached    dwellings,  the  
existing  dwelling    on  the  site  (where 

it  is  proposed  to  be  retained)    shall 

be  renovated  to  match  the  colour, 

material,  texture  and  architectural 

style of the proposed building so as to 

create a harmonious building.

3.6.5.8  Landscaping  and  Deep  Soil 
Planting for Attached Dwellings - Zone 
R2

a)  A  development  application  for  an 
include  a 

attached  dwelling  shall 

detailed  landscape  plan  prepared  by  a 

suitably qualified person. 

b)  Attached  dwellings  shall  satisfy  the 
following  provisions  relating  to  deep 
soil planting:

i)  no  more  than  30%  of  the  area 
forward of any building line shall be 

surfaced with impervious  materials, 

where  garages/carparking  spaces 

are  proposed  to  be  accessed  from 

the rear of the property; and

ii)  a  minimum  of  20%  of  the  total  site 
area shall be available for deep soil 
planting.

3.6.5.9    Waste  Bins  Requirements  for 
Attached Dwellings - Zone R2  

########Page96

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)a)  Space  shall  be  allocated  behind  the 
primary  and  secondary  building  lines 

and  out  of  public  view  to  store  the 

following for each dwelling: 

i)  a 140 litre bin; and            

ii)  two (2) 240 litre bins.

b)  The  bin  storage  area  shall  not  be 
located  in  such  a  place  that  requires 

any bins to be transported through any 

habitable part of the dwelling to reach 

the collection point.

3.6.5.10  Site  Services  for  Attached 
Dwellings - Zone R2

3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.5

Attached 

Dwellings 

a)  The  location,  design  and  construction 
satisfy 
services 

utility 

shall 

of 

requirements  of  the  relevant  servicing 
authority and Council.

b)  Adequate  provision  shall  be  made 
available  for  all  essential  services 

(i.e  water,  sewerage,  electricity,  gas, 

telephone,  internet  and  stormwater 

drainage).

c)  All  site  services  shall  be  placed 

underground.

d)  All  communication  dishes,  antennae 
and the like shall be located to minimise 

visual prominence.

########Page97

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.6
Low Density 

3.6.6  Multi Dwelling Housing - Zones R2 Low Density Residential Zone 

Residential 

Objectives: 

Development 

 ■ Encourage  quality-designed  multi  dwelling  houses    that  make  a  positive 

contribution to the streetscape and amenity of the neighbourhood.

3.6.6

Multi Dwelling 

Housing 

 ■ Ensure  that    multi  dwelling  housing  within  R2  Low  Density  Residential  are  of 

small scale and bulk.  

 ■ Ensure  that  multi  dwelling  housing    offer  a  high  standard  of  amenity  for  its 

occupants and maintains the amenity of other residents in the locality.

 ■ Ensure that internal living areas are of appropriate size and dimensions having 
regard to the number of potential occupants of a dwelling within a multi dwelling 

housing development. 

Note:
Multi  dwelling  housing  (as  defined 

under  the  CLEP)  means  3  or  more 

dwellings 

(whether  attached  or 

detached)  on  one  lot  of  land,  each 

with  access  at  ground  level,  but 

does  not  include  a  residential  flat 

building.

Note: 

Refer to Section 4.1C of the CLEP for 

the minimum qualifying site area and 

lot sizes for multi dwelling housing.

3.6.6.1  General  Requirements  for 
Multi Dwelling Housing - Zone R2

a)  A minimum of 10% of the total number 
of  dwellings  within  a  multi  dwelling 

housing  development  containing  10 

or  more  dwellings  shall  be  adaptable 

dwelling(s).

b)  Multi  dwelling  housing  shall  not  be 
erected  on  an  existing  battle-axe 

allotment.

c)  Subject  to  the  satisfaction  of  other 
requirements  within  the  Plan,  the 

number  of  dwellings  permitted  within 

a  multi  dwelling  housing  development 

shall not exceed:     

i)  2 dwellings for the first  700sqm  of 

land area; and  

ii)  1 dwelling for each 300sqm of  land 

area thereafter.

d)  For  the  purpose  of  calculating  the 
developable area of an allotment:

i)  any 

land  that 

is  part  of  an 

environmental  corridor  as  specified 
by  the  Office  of  Environment  and 
Heritage  or  any  other  government 
agency; or

ii)  any land that is subject to bushfire, 

########Page98

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
flooding or other risk (excluding mine 

subsidence); or

iii) a right of carriage way; 

shall  not  be  included  within  the 

developable  area  of  the  allotment, 

unless  the  relevant  public  agency  

is  satisfied  that  that  part  of  the 

allotment 

is  capable  of  being 

developed  for  the  purpose  of  multi 

dwelling housing.

e)  Multi  dwelling  housing  shall  only  be 

permitted on a site:                   

i)  having  a  minimum  width  of  22.5 
metres  measured  along  the  side 

boundaries  at  a  distance    of  5.5 

metres  from  the  primary  street 

boundary;  

ii)  having a minimum width of 10 metres  
measured  between  the  extended 

property  side  boundaries,    or  in 

the  case  of  a  corner  allotment,  the 

secondary  street  boundaries  where 

3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.6

Multi Dwelling 

Housing 

5

.

5

m

K e r b   L i n e

Figure  3.6.6.1  - An  example  of  a 

multi dwelling development, with 

street frontage.

Minim u m 22.5 m etres

Minim u m 10.0 m etres

Property Boundary

5.5m

they intersect with the kerb line; and

Figure  3.6.6.2  – 

Illustration  of  the 

requirements for the minimum  allotment  

frontage  incorporating  mutli  dwelling 

housing.

iii) where  no  part  of  the  allotment 
the 
is  within  50  metres  of 

commencement of the head of a cul-

de-sac to which vehicular access  to 

the  site  is obtained  (refer to  Figure 

3.6.6.3).

3.6.6.2    Setbacks  for  Multi  Dwelling 
Housing - Zone R2

a)  A  multi  dwelling  housing  development 

shall be set back a minimum of:

i)  5.5  metres  from  the  primary  street 

boundary;    

ii)  3 metres from the secondary   

street boundary; 

iii) 0.9 metres from any side    

Figure  3.6.6.3  -  Illustration  of  the  50 

boundary for the ground level;  

metre distance from the commencement 

iv)  1.5  metres 
boundary 

from 

any 

side                   

for  all 

levels  above                   

of the head of a cul-de-sac where multi 
  are 

dwelling  housing  development 

the ground level;     

restricted.

########Page99

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)                 
3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

v)  5 metres from the rear boundary for 

the ground level;  and  

vi)  10  metres  from  the  rear  boundary 
for all levels above ground level.

b)  Notwithstanding  3.6.6.2.a)  i) &ii), any 
garage shall be setback a minimum of 6 

3.6.6

metres from any street boundary. 

Multi Dwelling 

Housing 

3.6.6.3  The Size of Indoor Living Areas  
for Multi Dwelling Housing - Zone R2

a)  The indoor living areas (i.e family room 
and  lounges)  within  a  dwelling  (that 

forms part of a multi dwelling housing 

development) shall have a minimum of 

one  unfragmented area that is not less 

Figure  3.6.6.4  –  Example  of  multi 

than:

dwelling housing  streetscape.

i)  (3x3)sqm in case of a dwelling with 

1 bedroom;

ii)  (3.5x4)sqm  in  case  of  a  dwelling 

with 2 or 3 bedrooms;

iii) (4x5)sqm in case of a dwelling with 4 

or more bedrooms.

b)  For  the  purpose  of  clause  3.6.6.3a) 
above,  the  total  number  of  bedrooms 

within  a  dwelling  shall  include  any 

room that is capable of being used as a 

bedroom (i.e study room).

3.6.6.4  Rear Access for Multi Dwelling 
Housing  - Zone R2

a)  Where  there  is  no  access  to  a  rear 
lane  or  rear  street    directly  available 

from  the  back    of  attached  dwellings, 
each  dwelling  shall  be  provided  with 

Note: 

a  separate  and  direct  access  from  the 

The  requirement  for  the  rear-to 

backyard  to  the  front  yard  that  does 

front  access  is  required  to  enable 

not pass through any habitable area of 

occupants of an attached dwelling to 

dwelling (Refer to Figure 3.6.5.1 for a 
suggested design solution). 

b)  For the purpose of 3.6.6.4 a) above, the 
direct access from the rear to the front 

of  the  dwelling  shall  have  a  minimum 
width  of  0.9  metres  and  shall  not  be 

obstructed  by  hot  water  systems,  air 

conditioning units, gardens or anything 

move organic waste bins, lawnmowers 

and the like from the backyard to the 

front of the building without the need 

to pass through the main living areas. 

########Page100

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)that  results  in  the  obstruction  of  the 

access way.  

3.6.6.5  Car Parking Requirements  for 
Multi Dwelling Housing  - Zone R2

a)  Each  multi  dwelling  housing  unit  shall 
be provided with a minimum of one (1)

single garage.

b)  One  (1)  external  additional  visitor  car 
parking space shall be provided for every 

two  (2)  units  (or  part  thereof),  unless 

all  dwellings  within  the  development 

have direct frontage to a public street.

c)  No  visitor  car  parking  space  shall  be 
located  forward  of  the  primary  or 

secondary street boundary.

d)  No visitor car parking space shall be in a 

‘stacked’ configuration. 

3.6.6.6  Private  and  Communal  Open 
Space  for  Multi  Dwelling  Housing  - 
Zone R2

a)  Each  multi  dwelling  housing  unit  shall 
be  provided  with  an  area  or  areas    of 

private open space that:     

i)  are  not  located  within  the  primary 

street setback;      

3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.6

Multi Dwelling 

Housing 

Figure  3.6.6.5  –  Example  of  high 

quality  façade  treatment  for  multi 

dwellings.

Figure 3.6.6.6 – Example of communal 

ii)  have a minimum area of 60 sqm,   

facilities for a multi dwelling housing 

iii) have a minimum width of 3 metres;

development.

iv)  include  a  minimum  levelled  area  of  

(5x5)sqm;

v)  have an internal living room directly 
accessible  to  outdoor  the  private 
open space areas; and 

vi)  satisfy  solar  access  requirements 

contained in  section 3.4.4.

b)  No  part  of  an  outdoor  living  area  is 
permitted  to  be  located  within  the 

primary  or  secondary  street  setback 

area.

c)  Any 

communal 

open 

space 

or 

recreation              facility provided as a 

part of a development shall be designed 

########Page101

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)and constructed to:     

i)  ensure safe access by the occupants 

of the development;   

Note: 
Nothing  in  this  Plan  shall  be 

taken  to  mean  that  multi 

ii)  prevent  access  by  members  of  the 

dwelling housing in areas zoned 

R2  are  permissible  to  be  built 

on top of each other. 

Note: 
Refer to Section 2.5 Landscaping 

of Part 2 of Volume 1 of the Plan  

for additional requirements on 

Landscaping.

Figure  3.6.6.7  –  Example    of    multi 

dwelling housing.

public; and    

iii) provide for the safety and well being 
of  children  in  accordance  with  any 

applicable Australian Standard.

3.6.6.7 Presentation to Public Streets 
for Multi Dwelling Housing - Zone R2

a)  Multi dwelling housing shall satisfy the 
following additional  provisions relating 

to streetscape:   

i)  architectural 
balconies, 

features 

(such  as 

openings, 

columns, 

porches,  colours,  materials  etc) 
and  articulation  in  walls  are    to  be 

incorporated into the front facade of 

each dwelling;   

ii)  no more than 30% of the area forward 
of any building line shall be surfaced 

with impervious  materials.                                                          

b)  Multi 

dwelling 

housing 

shall 

satisfy 

the 

following  architectural 

requirements:  

i)   a distinctive architectural  outcome 
that  unifies  the  range  of  building 

elements  and  diversity 

  within 

the  development  and  which  also 

harmonises 

with 

surrounding 

development;   

ii)  incorporation  of  variations  in  roof 
heights  and  wall  planes  to      avoid 

long unbroken ridge lines; 

iii) incorporation  of 

facade 

shifts 

and  articulation,  varied  materials 

and  colours 

in  order  to  avoid                

duplication  of  the  same  building                  

elements; and   

iv)  provision  of  windows  and  active 
spaces  in  the  building    ends,  to 

provide  additional 

security  and 

visual interest.

3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.6

Multi Dwelling 

Housing 

########Page102

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)c)  Multi  dwelling  housing 

  shall  not 

incorporate  vehicular  access 

that 

utilises any gate structure /mechanism 

other  than  access  to  basement  car 

parking.

d)  Unless  Council  can  be  satisfied  that 
an  existing  dwelling  located  on  the 

site  makes  a  positive  contribution  to 

the  character  of  the  streetscape,  that 

dwelling shall be demolished. 

e)  Where  a  development  involves  the 
construction  of  additional    dwellings 

to  create  multi  dwelling  housing,  the  

existing dwelling ( where it is proposed 

to  be  retained)    shall  be  renovated  to 

match  the  colour,  material,  texture 

and architectural style of the proposed 
buildings  so  as  to  create  a  harmonious 

development. 

3.6.6.8  Landscaping  and  Deep  Soil 
Planting  for  Multi  Dwelling  Housing  - 
Zone R2

a)  Multi  dwelling  housing    shall  satisfy 
the  following  requirements  relating  to 

landscaping: 

i)  a detailed landscape  design plan shall 
be submitted by a suitably qualified 

person  with 

the  development 

application; 

ii)  no more than 30% of the area forward 
of any building line shall be surfaced 

with impervious materials;and   

iii) a  minimum  of  20%  of  the  total  site 
area shall be available for deep soil 

planting.              

3.6.6.9    Multi  Dwelling  Housing    and 
Waste Management  - Zone R2 

a)  Multi  dwelling  housing  development 
shall make provision for individual waste 

storage  for  each  dwelling,  allocated 

behind  the  primary  and  secondary 

building lines and out of public view, for 

3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.6

Multi Dwelling 

Housing 

########Page103

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.6

the following:                   

i)  a 140 litre bin; and            

ii)  two (2)  240 litre bins.

b)  Development  incorporating  more  than 
six (6) dwellings not able to be Torrens 

Title  subdivided  under  this  Plan  shall 

make  provision  for  an  appropriately 

Multi Dwelling 

sized  communal  waste/recycling  bin 

Housing 

storage facility that is centrally located 

and  provides  convenient  access  for 

occupants  and  collection  contractors. 

Such storage facility shall: 

i)  be  located  behind  the  primary  and 

secondary building line;  

ii)  be no more than 25 metres from the 

street;   

iii) be covered; 

iv)  contain a hose connection;

v)  have  an  impervious  floor  that  is 

connected to the sewer;   

vi)  be  located  no  closer  than  3  metres 
(in  a  horizontal  direction)  from  an 

opening within a dwelling on the site 

or from the property boundary;  and

vii) incorporate design and construction 
(including  colours,  materials  and 

finishes) 

that  complement 

the 

development.

c)  Any  bin  facility  shall  be  of  sufficient 
size to accommodate the following for 
each multi dwelling housing:    

i)  a 140 litre bin; and            

ii)  two (2)  240 litre bins.

d)  All  waste  storage  areas  shall  be 
appropriately  screened  from  public 

view.

e)  All bins located within waste/recycling 
bin  storage  facility  shall  be  presented 

to  kerbside  for  collection  by  a  site 

manager,  no  earlier  than  the  evening 

prior  to  scheduled  collection  and 

returned  directly  to  the  communal 

########Page104

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)bin  storage  area  within  four  hours  of 

collection.

f)  The bin storage waste/recycling facility 
shall  not  be  located  in  such  a  place 

that requires any bins to be transported 

through  any  habitable  part  of  the 

dwelling to reach the collection point.

g)  Any development containing 20 or more 
dwellings,  and/or  when  the  number  of 

bins proposed cannot be accommodated 

within  50%  of 

the  development’s 

frontage  width  on  collection  day,  the 

development  shall  be  designed  to 

accommodate forward-in, forward-out, 

drive-on vehicular collection for on-site 

servicing (for the purpose of calculating 

the minimum area behind the kerb and 

gutter required for bin placement, each 

bin  shall  be  provided  a  clear  width  of 

1.0  metre  which  allows  for  a  300mm 

separation distance either side of each 

bin). 

3.6.6.10  Site  Services 
Dwelling Housing -  Zone R2  

for  Multi 

a)  The  location,  design  and  construction 
of  utility  services  shall  satisfy  the 

requirements  of  the  relevant  servicing 

authority and Council.

b)  Adequate  provision  shall  be  made 
available  for  all  essential  services 

(i.e  water,  sewerage,  electricity,  gas, 

telephone,  internet  and  stormwater 
drainage).

c)  All  site  services  shall  be  placed 

underground.

d)  All  communication  dishes,  antennae 
and the like shall be located to minimise 

visual prominence.

3.6
Low Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.6.6

Multi Dwelling 

Housing 

########Page105

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.7
Medium  

Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.7 Medium Density Residential Development - Zone R3

This section applies to:

• 

attached  dwellings on areas zoned R3;and 

•  multi dwelling housing on areas zoned R3.

Note: 

Clause 7.13 Design Excellence of the CLEP applies to zones R3, R4, B2, B3 and B4 and 

aims to deliver the highest standard of architectural and urban design, as part of the 

built environment.  

Note: 

Numerical  Development  Standards  for  floor  space  ratios,  building  heights  and 

subdivision for residential development  are provided under the CLEP.

Figure 3.7.1 - Examples of medium density residential development. 

########Page106

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.7
Medium 

Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.7.1

Attached 

Dwelling 

Housing 

3.7.1 Attached Dwellings  - Zone R3 

Objectives: 

 ■ Ensure  that  attached  dwellings  are  designed    to    enhance  the    streetscape 

character of established residential neighbourhoods.

 ■ Ensure that  attached dwellings  offer a high standard of amenity for occupants and 
maintains the amenity of adjoining residents and acknowledges the dimensional 

constraints of the existing under sized allotments.

 ■ Encourage the use of roof space to provide habitable areas.

 ■ Encourage  innovative  designs  and  layout  to  produce  a  medium  density  style 
development  with  contemporary  buildings  that  utilise  facade  modulation  and 

incorporate shade elements, such as pergolas, verandahs and the like. 

3.7.1.1 Site Requirements for Attached 
Dwellings - Zone R3

 Design Requirements

a)  Each lot of land  for each dwelling that 
forms  part  of  an  attached  dwelling 

development  shall  have    a  minimum 

width  of  7.5  metres  measured  along 

the  side  boundaries  at  a  distance  of 

5.5  metres  from  the  primary  street 

boundary,  unless  the  individual  lots 

existed prior to the commencement of 

the CLEP.

b)  Attached dwellings shall not be erected 

Note:

Attached  dwelling  (as  defined 
under  the  CLEP)  means  a  build-
ing  containing  3  or  more  dwell-
ings, where:

a)  each  dwelling  is  attached 
to  another  dwelling  by  a 

common wall, and

b)  each of the dwellings is on 
its own lot of land, and

c)  none  of  the  dwellings  is 
located above any part of 

another dwelling. 

Figure 3.7.1.1 - An example of attached dwellings. 

########Page107

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.7
Medium 

Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.7.1

Attached 

Dwellings 

on an existing battle-axe allotment.

c)  With  any  development  application 
involving the construction of a building 

wall on a boundary, the creation of an 

easement  for  access  and  maintenance 

on the adjoining land may be required.

d)  Subject  to  the  satisfaction  of  other 
requirements  within  the  Plan,  the 

number  of  dwellings  permitted  within 

attached  dwellings  development  shall 

not  exceed  6  dwellings  within  the  R3 

zone. 

3.7.1.2 
Dwellings - Zone R3 

  Setbacks 

for  Attached 

a)  Attached  dwellings  shall  be  setback  a 
minimum  of:                              

i)  5.5  metres  from  the  primary  street 

boundary;    

ii)  2  metres  from  the  secondary  street 

boundary; 

iii) 0.9 metres from any side    

boundary;

iv)  3 metres from the rear boundary for 

the ground level;  and  

v)  6 metres from the rear boundary for 

all levels above ground level. 

b)  Notwithstanding Section 3.7.1.2a),  car 
parking spaces/garages shall be setback 

a minimum of 6 metres from the primary 

street setback.

c)  Despite  Clause  3.7.1.2a)  above,  where 
car parking spaces/garages are located 

and accessed from the back of the site 

(i.e via a rear lane) an attached dwelling 

development  shall  be  permitted  to  be 

setback by:

Ground Floor 

i)    3  metres  from  the  primary  street 

First Floor 

boundary;

ii)  2  metres  from  the  secondary  street 

boundary; 

iii) 0.9 metres from any side    

boundary;

Figure  3.7.1.2  -  An  example  of 

attached dwellings floor plans ( Source  

Dwelling Density Guide, NSW Planning 

& Environment, 2014) 

########Page108

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)         
                 
                 
iv)  3 metres from the rear boundary for 

the ground level;  

v)  6 metres from the rear boundary for 

all levels above ground level; 

vi)  1  metre  from  the  rear  boundary 
for  the  garage  component  of  the 

building.

d)  Where garages are located and accessed 
from the back of the site (i.e via a rear 

lane) they shall not exceed 50% of the 

width of the rear elevation.

3.7.1.3    The  Size  of  Indoor  Living  
Areas  - Zone R3

a)  The indoor living areas (i.e family room 
and  lounges)  within  a  dwelling  (that 

forms  part  of  attached  dwellings  shall 

have a minimum of one  unfragmented 

area that is not less than:

i)  (3x3)sqm in case of a dwelling with 

1 bedroom;

ii)  (3.5x4)sqm in case of a dwelling with 

2 or 3 bedrooms;

iii) (4x5)sqm in case of a dwelling with 4 

or more bedrooms.

b)  For  the  purpose  of  clause  3.7.1.3a) 
above,  the  total  number  of  bedrooms 

within  a  dwelling  shall  include  any 

room that is capable of being used as a 

bedroom (i.e study room).

3.7.1.4    Rear  Access  for  Attached 
Dwellings - Zone R3

a)  Where  there  is  no  access  to  a  rear 
lane  or  rear  street    directly  available 

from  the  back    of  attached  dwellings, 

3.7
Medium 

Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.7.1

Attached 

Dwellings 

Figure  3.7.1.3  -  Examples  of  medium 

density  type  residential  development 

with articulated facade  treatment. 

Figure  3.7.1.4  - 

Illustration  of  an 

example of a design solution for  rear to 

front  access  requirement  for  attached 

dwellings.

Note: 

each  dwelling  shall  be  provided  with 

The requirement for the rear-to front 

a  separate  and  direct  access  from  the 

access  is  to  enable  occupants  of  an 

backyard  to  the  front  yard  that  does 

attached  dwelling  to  move  organic 

not pass through any habitable area of 

waste bins, lawnmowers and the like 

the dwelling (Refer to Figure 3.7.1.4 for 
a suggested design solution). 

from the backyard to the front of the 

building  without  the  need  to  pass 

b)  For the purpose of 3.7.1.4 a) above, the 
direct access from the rear to the front 

through the main living areas. 

########Page109

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.7
Medium  

Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.7.1

Attached 

Dwellings 

of  the  dwelling  shall  have  a  minimum 

width  of  0.9  metres  and  shall  not  be 

obstructed  by  hot  water  systems,  air 

conditioning units, gardens or anything 

that may result in the obstruction of the 

access way.  

Private 

Parking 
3.7.1.5 
Requirement  for Attached Dwellings - 
Zone R3

Car 

a)  Each  dwelling  that  is  part  of  attached 
dwellings  shall  be  provided  with  a 

minimum of one (1) single garage.

b)  Despite Clause 3.7.1.5 a) above, where 
an  individual  allotment  is  in  existence 

before  the  gazettal  date  of  the  CLEP 

and  has  a  width  less  than  7.5  metres, 

standard garages shall not be permitted 
on the primary street frontage.

c)  For  the  purpose  of  Clause  3.7.1.5  b) 
above,  covered  car  parking  spaces 

fronting the primary street shall only be 

provided  in  a  non-obtrusive  open  type 

design  so  as  not  to  detract  from  the 

street facade of the development. 

3.7.1.6  Requirements  for  the  Use  of 
Roof  Space  for  Habitable  Areas  for 
Attached Dwellings - Zone R3

a)  Council may consider the use of the roof 
space for a habitable room, but only if:

i)  it is appropriately designed;

ii)  it is part of the overall design of the 

building;

iii) appropriate  light  and  ventilation  is 

supplied to rooms; and

iv)  it does not negatively impact on the 
design quality of the streetscape.           

3.7.1.7  Presentation to Public Streets 
for Attached Dwellings - Zone R3

a)  Attached 
satisfy 

dwelling 

housing 

shall 

the 

following  architectural 

requirements:  

i)   a distinctive architectural  outcome 

########Page110

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)that unifies the range of building 

elements  and  diversity    within 

the development and which also 

harmonises  with  surrounding 

development;   

ii)  incorporation  of  variations  in 
roof  heights  and  wall  planes  to   

avoid long unbroken ridge lines; 

Note: 

iii) incorporation  of  facade  shifts 
varied 
articulation, 

and 

Clause 7.13 Design Excellence 

of  the  CLEP  applies  to  zones 

materials  and  colours  in  order 

R3,  R4,  B2,  B3  and  B4  and 

to avoid                duplication 

aims  to  deliver  the  highest 

of  the  same  building  elements; 

standard  of  architectural  and 

3.7
Medium  

Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.7.1

Attached 

Dwellings 

urban  design,  as  part  of  the 

built environment.  

and   

iv)  provision of windows and  active 
spaces in the building  ends, to 

provide  additional  security  and 
visual interest;

v)  architectural  features  (such  as 
balconies,  openings,  columns, 

porches, colours, materials  etc) 

and articulation in walls are  to 

be  incorporated  into  the  front 

facade of each dwelling.

b)  All  existing  dwellings  on  site 
shall  be  demolished,  unless  the  

existing dwelling is fully renovated 

to  match  the  colour,  material, 

texture  and  architectural  style  of 

the  proposed  buildings  so  as  to 

create a harmonious development. 

3.7.1.8  Private  Open  Space  for 
Attached Dwellings - Zone R3

a)  Each  dwelling  within  an  attached 
dwelling  development  shall  be 

provided  with  a  combined  area  of 

private open space that:                       

i)  is  located  behind  the    primary 
building  line;                                   

ii)  has  a  combined  minimum  area 

of 40 sqm;

iii) has  a  minimum  level  area  of 
(3x3) sqm;                             

########Page111

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Note: 
Refer  to  Section  2.5  Landscaping 

of  Part  2  of  Volume  1  of  the  Plan  

for  additional 

requirements  on 

Landscaping.  

3.7
Medium  

Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.7.1

Attached 

Dwellings 

iv)  satisfies  solar  access  requirements 

contained in section 4.4.3;and

v)  has  an  internal  living  room  directly 
accessible  to  outdoor  the  private 

open space areas.

3.7.1.9  Landscaping  Requirement  for 
and  deep  soil  planting  for  Attached 
Dwellings - Zone R3

a)  A  detailed 

landscape  design  plan 

incorporating  vegetation  compatible 

with the character of the de3velopment  

shall be submitted with a development 

application.

b)  Attached  dwellings  shall  satisfy  the 
following  provisions  relating  to  deep 

soil planting:

i)  the  area  forward  of  the  front 
building line shall remain permeable 

other than the area occupied by the 

driveway and the pedestrian access 

to the main door of the dwelling;and                        

ii)  a  minimum  of  20%  of  the  total  site 
area shall be available for deep soil 

planting.

iii) no  more  than  30%  of  the  area 
forward of any building line shall be 

surfaced with impervious  materials, 

where  garages/carparking  spaces 

are  proposed  to  be  accessed  from 

the rear of the property.  

Waste 

3.7.1.10 
Management 
Requirements  for Attached Dwellings 
- Zone R3 

a)  Space  shall  be  allocated  behind  the 
primary  and  secondary  building  lines, 

out of public view to store the following:   

i)  a 140 litre bin; and            

ii)  two (2)  240 litre bins.

b)  The  bin  storage  area  shall  not  be 
located  in  such  a  place  that  requires 

any bins to be transported through any 

habitable part of the dwelling to reach 

the collection point. 

########Page112

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.7.1.11 Site Services for Attached Dwellings 
- Zone R3

a)  The  location,  design  and  construction  of 
utility  services  shall  satisfy  requirements  of 

the relevant servicing authority and Council.

b)  Adequate  provision  shall  be  made  available 
for all essential services (i.e water, sewerage, 

electricity,  gas,  telephone, 

internet  and 

stormwater drainage).

c)  All site services shall be placed underground.

d)  All  communication  dishes,  antennae  and 
the  like  shall  be  located  to  minimise  visual 

prominence.

3.7
Medium  

Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.7.1

Attached 

Dwellings 

########Page113

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.7
Medium  

Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.7.2 Multi Dwelling Housing - Zone R3 

Objectives: 

 ■ Ensure  that  multi  dwelling  housing  is  designed    to    enhance  the    streetscape 

character of established residential neighbourhoods.

3.7.2

 ■ Ensure that multi dwelling housing offers a high standard of internal and external 
amenity  for  its  occupants  and  maintains  the  amenity  of  other  residents  in  the 

Multi Dwelling 

locality.

Housing 

 ■ Encourage  innovative  designs  and  layout  to  produce  a  medium  density  style 
development  with  contemporary  buildings  that  utilise  facade  modulation  and 

incorporate shade elements, such as pergolas, verandahs and the like. 

3.7.2.1    Site  Requirements  for  Multi 
Dwelling Housing  - Zone R3  

Note:

a)  Multi  dwelling  housing  shall  not  be 
erected  on  an  existing  battle-axe 

allotment.

b)  For  the  purpose  of  calculating  the 
developable area of an allotment a right 

of  carriage  way    shall  not  be  included 

within  the  developable  area  of  the 

allotment,  unless  the  relevant  public 

agency  is satisfied that, that part of the 

allotment is capable of being developed 

for  the  purpose  of  multi  dwelling 

housing.

c)  Multi  dwelling  housing  shall  only  be 
permitted  on  a  site  where  no  part  of 

the allotment is within 50 metres of the 

commencement of the head of a cul-de-

sac to which vehicular access  to the site 

is obtained (refer to Figure 3.7.2.2).

d)  A minimum of 10% of the total number 
of  dwellings  within  a  multi  dwelling 

housing  development  containing  10 

or  more  dwellings  shall  be  adaptable 

dwelling(s).

Multi dwelling housing (as defined 

under the CLEP) means 3 or more 

dwellings  (whether  attached  or 

detached) on one lot of land, each 

with  access  at  ground  level,  but 

does not include a residential flat 

building.

Figure 

3.7.2.1 

– 

Illustration  of 

e)  Multi  dwelling  housing 

  shall  not 

the  50  metre  distance  from  the 

incorporate  vehicular  access 

that 

commencement  of  the  head  of  a  cul-

utilises any gate structure /mechanism 

de-sac  where  multi  dwelling  housing 

other  than  access  to  basement  car 

development are restricted.

parking.

########Page114

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.7.2.2    Setbacks    for  Muti  Dwelling 
Housing - Zone R3

a)  A  multi  dwelling  housing  development 

shall be set back a minimum of:

i)  5.5  metres  from  the  primary  street 

boundary;    

ii)  2 metres from the secondary street 

boundary; 

iii) 0.9 metres from any side    

boundary;

iv)  3 metres from the rear boundary for 

the ground level;  and  

v)  6 metres from the rear boundary for 

all levels above ground level.

b)  Notwithstanding Section 3.7.2.2a), the 
car  parking  space  shall  be  setback  a 

minimum of 6 metres from the primary 

street setback.

c)  Despite Clause 3.7.1.2a) above, where 
car parking spaces/garages are located 

and accessed from the back of the site 

(i.e  via  a  rear  lane)  a  multi  dwelling 

housing development shall be permitted 

to be setback by:

i)    3  metres  from  the  primary  street 

boundary;

ii)  2 metres from the secondary street 

boundary; 

iii) 0.9 metres from any side    

boundary;

iv)  3 metres from the rear boundary for 

the ground level;  

v)  6 metres from the rear boundary for 
all levels above ground level; and

vi)  1  metre  from  the  rear  boundary 
for  the  garage  component  of  the 

building.

d)  Where garages are located and accessed 
from the back of the site (i.e via a rear 

lane) they shall not exceed 50% of the 

width of the rear elevation.

3.7
Medium  

Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.7.2

Multi Dwelling 

Housing 

Ground Floor 

First Floor 

Figure  3.7.2.2  - An  example  of  Multi  

dwelling  housing  floor  plans  located 

on  a  corner  site  where  dwellings  are 

located  on  top  of  each  other  with 

separate  access  for  each  dwelling 

from  the  ground  floor. 

  (Source  

Dwelling Density Guide, NSW Planning 

& 

Environment, 

2014 

(Slightly 

modified)) 

########Page115

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)                 
            
3.7
Medium  

Density 

Residential 

Development 

e)  Multi  dwelling  housing    on  corner 
allotments  shall  be  permitted  to  have 

dwellings    located  on  the  ground  floor 

and    the  first  floor  above  ,  providing 

compliance with the BCA requirements 

and    separate  access  to  each  dwelling 

from  the  ground  floor  is  provided. 

Refer  to  the    example  of  floor  plans  

3.7.2

illustrated in Figure 3.7.2.2.

Multi Dwelling 

f)  Stairs  providing  access  to  upper  level 

Housing 

dwellings shall be enclosed.

3.7.2.3  The Size of Indoor Living Areas  
- Zone R3

a)  The indoor living areas (i.e family room 
and  lounges)  within  a  dwelling  (that 

forms  part  of  a  multi  dwelling  housing 

development) shall have a minimum of 

one  unfragmented area that is not less 

than:

i)  (3x3)sqm in case of a dwelling with 

1 bedroom;

ii)  (3.5x4)sqm in case of a dwelling with 

2 or 3 bedrooms;

iii) (4x5)sqm in case of a dwelling with 4 

or more bedrooms.

b)  For  the  purpose  of  clause  3.7.2.3a) 
above,  the  total  number  of  bedrooms 

within  a  dwelling  shall  include  any 

room that is capable of being used as a 

bedroom (i.e study room).

3.7.2.4  Rear Access  - Zone R3

a)  Where  there  is  no  access  to  a  rear 
lane  or  rear  street    directly  available 

from  the  back    of  attached  dwellings, 

each  dwelling  shall  be  provided  with 

a  separate  and  direct  access  from  the 

backyard  to  the  front  yard  that  does 

not pass through any habitable area of 

dwelling  (Refer  to  Figure  3.6.5.1  for  a 
suggested design solution). 

b)  For the purpose of 3.7.2.4 a) above, the 
direct access from the rear to the front 

of  the  dwelling  shall  have  a  minimum 

width  of  0.9  metres  and  shall  not  be 

########Page116

Note: 

The requirement for the rear-to front 

access  is  to  enable  occupants  of  an 

attached  dwelling  to  move  organic 

waste bins, lawnmowers and the like 

from the backyard to the front of the 

building  without  the  need  to  pass 

through the main living areas. 

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)obstructed  by  hot  water  systems,  air 

conditioning units, gardens or anything 

that  results  in  the  obstruction  of  the 

access way.  

Private 

3.7.2.5 
Requirement 
Housing  - Zone R3 

Car 

Parking 
for  Multi  Dwelling 

a)  Each  multi  dwelling  housing  unit  shall 
be  provided  with  a  minimum  of  one 

single garage or car parking space.

b)  One  (1)  external  additional  visitor  car 
parking space shall be provided for every 

three (3) units (or part thereof), unless 

all  dwellings  within  the  development 

have direct frontage to a public street.

c)  No  visitor  car  parking  space  shall  be 
located  forward  of  the  primary  or 

secondary street boundary.

d)  No visitor car parking space shall be in a 

‘stacked’ configuration.

3.7.2.6  Requirements  for  the  Use  of 
Roof  Space  for    Habitable  Areas  for 
Multi Dwelling Housing - Zone R3

a)  Council may consider the use of the roof 
space for a habitable room, but only if:

i)  it is appropriately designed;

ii)  it is part of the overall design of the 

building;

iii) appropriate  light  and  ventilation  is 

supplied to rooms; and

iv)  it does not negatively impact on the 
design quality of the streetscape.    

3.7.2.7  Private  and  Communal  Open 
Space Requirement for Multi Dwelling 
Housing - Zone R3

a)  Each  multi dwelling housing unit shall 
be  provided  with  an  area  or  areas    of 

private open space that:     

i)  are  not  located  within  the  primary 

street setback;      

ii)  have a minimum area of 40 sqm,   

iii) have a minimum width of 3 metres;

Figure  3.7.2.3 

-  Examples  of 

residential 

medium 

density  

development. 

3.7
Medium  

Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.7.2

Multi Dwelling 

Housing 

########Page117

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.7
Medium  

Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.7.2

Multi Dwelling 

Housing 

iv)  include  a  minimum  levelled  area  of  

(3x3) sqm;

v)  have an internal living room directly 
accessible  to  outdoor  private  open 

space areas; and 

vi)  satisfy  solar  access  requirements 

contained in  section 3.4.4.

b)  No  part  of  an  outdoor  living  area  is 
permitted  to  be  located  within  the 

primary  or  secondary  street  setback 

area.

c)  Any 

communal 

open 

space 

or 

recreation  facility  provided  as  a  part 

of a development shall be designed and 

constructed to:     

i)  ensure safe access by the occupants 

of the development;   

ii)  prevent  access  by  members  of  the 

public; and    

iii) provide for the safety and well being 
of  children  in  accordance  with  any 

applicable Australian Standard.

3.7.2.8  Presentation to Public Streets 
for Multi Dwelling Housing - Zone R3

a)  Multi 

dwelling 

housing 

shall 

satisfy 

the 

following  architectural 

requirements:  

i)   a 

distinctive 

and 

innovative 

architectural    design  that  presents 

visually  interesting  facades  to  the 

streets; 

ii)  incorporation  of  variations  in  roof 
heights  and  wall  planes  to      avoid 

long unbroken ridge lines; 

iii) incorporation 

of 

facade 

shifts 

and  articulation,  varied  materials 

and  colours 

in  order  to  avoid                

duplication  of  the  same  building 

elements; and   

iv)  provision  of  windows  and    active 
spaces  in  the  building    ends,  to 

provide additional security and visual 

########Page118

Figure  3.7.2.4  -  An  example  of  multi 

dwelling  housing,  with  separate  dwellings 

on  each  floor.  (Source    Dwelling  Density 

Guide, NSW Planning & Environment, 2014)

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.7
Medium  

Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.7.2

Multi Dwelling 

Housing 

interest.

b)  Multi dwelling housing shall satisfy the 
following  additional  provisions  relating 

to streetscape:   

i)  architectural 
balconies, 

features 

(such  as 

openings, 

columns, 

porches,  colours,  materials    etc) 

and  articulation  in  walls  are    to  be 

incorporated into the front facade of 

each dwelling.

c)  Unless  Council  can  be  satisfied  that 
an  existing  dwelling  located  on  the 

site  makes  a  positive  contribution  to 

the  character  of  the  streetscape,  that 

dwelling shall be demolished. 

d)  Where  a  development  involves  the 
construction  of  additional    dwellings 

to  create  multi  dwelling  housing,  the  

existing dwelling ( where it is proposed 

to  be  retained)    shall  be  renovated  to 

match  the  colour,  material,  texture 

and architectural style of the proposed 

buildings  so  as  to  create  a  harmonious 

development. 

3.7.2.9  Landscaping  and  deep  soil 
for  Multi 
planting  Requirements 
Dwelling Housing - Zone R3

a)  Multi  dwelling  housing    shall  satisfy 
the  following  requirements  relating  to 

landscape: 

i)  a detailed landscape  design plan shall 
be submitted by a suitably qualified 
the  development 
person  with 

application; and   

ii)  a  minimum  of  20%  of  the  total  site 
area shall be available for deep soil 

Figure 3.7.2.5 - Examples of residential 

medium density  development. 

planting; and

iii)   no  more  than  30%  of  the  area 
forward of any building line shall be 

surfaced with impervious  materials.                                                                         

3.7.2.10  Multi  Dwelling  Housing  and 
Waste Management - Zone R3 

a)  Multi  dwelling  housing  development 

########Page119

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.7
Medium  

Density 

shall make provision for individual waste 

storage,  allocated  behind  the  primary 

and secondary building lines and out of 

public view, as per the following:                   

Residential 

Development 

i)  a 140 litre bin; and            

ii)  two (2)  240 litre bins.

3.7.2

b)  Development  incorporating  more  than 
six (6) dwellings not able to be Torrens 

Multi Dwelling 

Title  subdivided  under  this  Plan  shall 

Housing 

make  provision  for  an  appropriately 

sized  communal  waste/recycling  bin 

storage facility that is centrally located 

and  provides  convenient  access  for 

occupants  and  collection  contractors. 

Such storage facility shall: 

i)  be  located  behind  the  primary  and 

secondary building line;  

ii)  be no more than 25 metres from the 

street;   

iii) be covered; 

iv)  contain a hose connection;

v)  have  an  impervious  floor  that  is 

connected to the sewer;   

vi)  be  located  no  closer  than  3  metres 
(in  a  horizontal  direction)  from  an 

opening within a dwelling on the site 

or from the property boundary;  and

vii) incorporate design and construction 
(including  colours,  materials  and 

finishes) 

that  complement 

the 

development.

c)  Any  bin  storage  facility  shall  be  of  a 
sufficient  size  to  accommodate  the 

following  for  each  multi  dwelling 

housing:    

i)  a 140 litre bin; and            

ii)  two (2)  240 litre bins.

d)  All  waste  storage  areas  shall  be 
appropriately  screened  from  public 

view. 

e)  The  communal  waste/recycling  bin 

########Page120

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)storage  facility  shall  not  be  located  in 

such a place that requires any bins to be 

transported through any habitable part 

of the dwelling to reach the collection 

point. 

f)  All bins located within waste/recycling 
bin  storage  facility  shall  be  presented 

to  kerbside  for  collection  by  a  site 

manager,  no  earlier  than  the  evening 

prior  to  scheduled  collection  and 

returned  directly  to  the  communal 

bin  storage  area  within  four  hours  of 

collection.

g)  The bin storage waste/recycling facility 
shall  not  be  located  in  such  a  place 

that requires any bins to be transported 
through any habitable part of a dwelling 
to reach the collection point.

h)  Any development containing 20 or more 
dwellings, and/or when the number of 

bins proposed cannot be accommodated 

within  50%  of 

the  development’s 

frontage  width  on  collection  day,  the 

development  shall  be  designed  to 

accommodate forward-in, forward-out, 

drive-on vehicular collection for on-site 

servicing (for the purpose of calculating 

the minimum area behind the kerb and 

gutter required for bin placement, each 

bin  shall  be  provided  a  clear  width  of 

1.0  metre  which  allows  for  a  300mm 

separation distance either side of each 

bin). 

3.7.2.11  Site  Services 
Dwelling Housing - Zone R3

for  Multi 

a)  The  location,  design  and  construction 
satisfy 
services 

utility 

shall 

of 

requirements  of  the  relevant  servicing 

authority and Council.

b)  Adequate  provision  shall  be  made 
available  for  all  essential  services 

(i.e  water,  sewerage,  electricity,  gas, 

telephone,  internet  and  stormwater 

drainage).

3.7
Medium  

Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.7.2

Multi Dwelling 

Housing 

########Page121

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)c)  All  site  services  shall  be  placed 

underground.

d)  All  communication  dishes,  antennae 
and the like shall be located to minimise 

visual prominence.

3.7
Medium  

Density 

Residential 

Development 

3.7.2

Multi Dwelling 

Housing 

########Page122

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.8
Residential
Subdivision 

3.8 Residential Subdivision 

Objectives: 

 ■ Ensure that land once subdivided, contributes positively to the desired character 
of the locality and provides for the safe and attractive integration of existing 

and new development.

 ■ Ensure that subdivision responds to the physical characteristics of the land, its 
landscape setting, orientation, landmarks and key vistas to and from that land.

 ■ Ensure that subdivision provides safe connections with and extension of existing 
street  patterns,  as  well  as  any  pedestrian,  cycleway  and  public  open  space 

networks.

 ■ Promote  walking  and  cycling  as  a  mode  of  travel  within  a  residential 

neighbourhood.

 ■ Facilitate opportunities for public transport to service new subdivision estates.

 ■ Ensure  that  the  proposed  development  is  compatible  with  the  capacity  of 

existing and proposed infrastructure.

 ■ Encourage  subdivision  that  will  result  in  the  creation  of  allotments  that  are 
orientated,  and  of  such  dimension  and  configuration  to  facilitate  the  siting, 

design  and  construction  of  development  resulting  in  the  conservation  of  non-

renewable resources and the environmental attributes of the land.

3.8.1 General Requirements 
Design Requirements

a)  Subdivision 

shall  have  appropriate 

regard to orientation, slope, aspect and 

solar access. 

b)  Subdivision 

design 

shall 

comply 

Note: 

Development 

controls 

under 

the  plan  are 

in  addition  to 

the 

development 

standards 

requirements under the CLEP. 

with  the  requirements  specified  in 

Zone Acronyms

Council’s Engineering Design Guide  for 

Development,  available  from  Council’s 

website at www.campbelltown.nsw.gov.

au

c)  Where relevant, roads shall be designed 
to provide satisfactory level of services 

for the evacuation of occupants in the 

event of emergency.

R2 Low Density Residential: R2     

R3 Medium Density Residential: R3  

R4 High Density Residential: R4

R5 Large Lot Residential: R5 

d)  Subdivision 

through 
street access and minimise the number 

shall  promote 

of cul-de-sacs. 

e)  Roads/access handles shall be provided 

########Page123

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.8
Residential
Subdivision 

to  separate  allotments  from  any  park, 

reserve, waterway and the like.

f)  All allotments within a subdivision that 
are located adjacent to the intersection 

of 

local  public  roads  (existing  or 

proposed)  shall  provide  a  splay  in 
accordance  with  Council’s  Engineering 
Development 
Design  Guide 

for 

(available  from  Council’s  website  at 
(www.campbelltown.nsw.gov.au) 
ensure  adequate  sight  distances  and 

to 

maintain footpath widths. 

Note:  All  splays  shall  be  dedicated  to 

Council at no cost to Council.

Note:  In  the  case  of  an  RMS  road  the  size 

of the splay shall be in accordance with the 
RMS’s requirements. 

g)  Residential subdivision shall be designed 

to address the public domain. 

h)  Wherever  possible,  subdivision  design 
shall  avoid  the  creation  of  allotments 

that have rear boundaries (and fencing) 

that adjoin the public domain. 

Figure  3.8.1  –  Example  of  Greenfield 

residential subdivision

i)  For  the  purpose  of  calculating  the 
minimum allotment size and dimensions 

Note: 

under the Plan, any land that is  part of 

Refer to Part 4 Principal Development 

Standards  of  the  CLEP  for  the 

minimum  subdivision  standards  for 

Torrens  Tile  subdivision  (Clause  4.1 

of the CLEP). 

Note: 

Numerical  development  standards 

for the minimum subdivision for each 

type  of  residential  development  are 

provided under the CLEP. 

an  environmental  corridor  as  specified 
by  the  Office  of  Environment  and 
Heritage  or  any  other  government 
agency  shall  not  be  included  within 

the  calculated  area  of  land  unless  the 

relevant public agency  is satisfied that 

that part of the allotment is capable of 

being developed.

j)  For 

the  purpose  of 

calculating 

the  minimum    allotment  size    and  

dimensions  under  the  Plan,  any  land 

that  is  subject  to  bushfire,  flooding  or 

other risk (excluding mine subsidence) 

shall  not  be 

included  within  the 

calculated  area  of  land  unless  it  is 

demonstrated  to  Council’s  satisfaction 

that  the  site  can  be  appropriately 

managed  in  a  manner  that  retains  the 

########Page124

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
ability to be developed for the purpose 

to which it is intended under the zone. 

k)  Access  to  residential  subdivisions  shall 
not be permitted to any classified road 

where  alternative  access  can  be  made 

available  via  the  non–classified  road 

network.

l)  Extensive use of battleaxe configuration 
in the subdivision of new areas shall be 

3.8
Residential
Subdivision 

avoided, where possible.
Residential 

Torrens 

3.8.2 
Title 
Subdivision for the purpose of dwelling 
houses - Zones  R2 and R3
Design Requirements
a)  Any  residential  allotment  created  by 
Torrens Title subdivision for the purpose 

Figure 3.8.2 – Example of residential 

subdivision under construction.

of  a  dwelling  house  development  in 
areas zoned R2 and R3 shall satisfy the 

following standards:

i)  a  minimum  width  of  15  metres 
measured  along  the  side  boundaries 

at a distance of 5.5 metres from the 

front property boundary;     

ii)  a  minimum  width  of  7  metres  
measured  between  the  extended 

Figure  3.8.2        –  Minimum  allotment 

property side boundaries where they 

dimensions 

for 

Torrens 

Title 

intersect with the kerb line; and 

Subdivision    for  the  purpose  of  a 

iii) a minimum depth of 25 metres.

dwelling house. 

b)  Any 

  battle  axe  shaped  allotment 

created  by  subdivision  for  the  purpose 

of  a  dwelling  house  development  in 

areas zoned R2 and R3 shall satisfy the 
following standards:

i)  a  minimum  depth  of  25  metres 
excluding  the  length  of  the  access 

handle;

ii)  no more than one allotment shall be 
accessed via a battle axe handle;

Note: 

Refer to the CLEP for the minimum 

subdivision  standards  for  Torrens 

Tile subdivision (Clause 4.1 of the 

CLEP). 

Note: 

Clause 4(A) of the CLEP States:

iii) a  minimum  access  handle  width  of 

(4A)  If a lot is a battle-axe lot or 

3.5 metres; 

iv)   a maximum access handle length of 

35 metres;

v)  no  encroachment/s  or  right  of 

other  lot  with  an  access  handle, 

the area of the access handle is not 

to be included in calculating the lot 

size. 

########Page125

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.8
Residential 
Subdivision 

carriage way shall impinge into land 

within the access handle; 

vi)  the  provision  of  an  adequately 
dimensioned  vehicle  manoeuvring 

area,  located  behind  the  access 

handle; and

vii) the  provision  of  a  minimum  0.5 
metre wide landscape strip along the 

length  of  the  access  handle,  where 

it adjoins the boundary/fence of the 

neighbouring property. 

Residential 

3.8.3 
Title 
Subdivision for the Purpose of Dwelling 
Houses Development - Zone R5

Torrens 

Design Requirements

Note: 

Clause 4(A) of the CLEP States:

(4A)  If a lot is a battle-axe lot or 

other  lot  with  an  access  handle, 

the area of the access handle is not 

to be included in calculating the lot 

size. 

a)  Any  residential  allotment  created  by 
Torrens Title subdivision for the purpose 
of  a  dwelling  house  development 
in  areas  zoned  R5  shall  satisfy  the 
following standards:

i)  a  minimum  width  of  20  metres 
measured along the side boundaries 

at a distance of 5.5 metres from the 

front property boundary;     

ii)  a  minimum  width  of  10  metres  
measured  between  the  extended 

property side boundaries where they 

intersect with the kerb line; and 

iii) a minimum depth of 25 metres.

b)  Any    battle  axe  shaped  allotment 
created  by  subdivision  for  the  purpose 
of  a  dwelling  house  development 
in  areas  zoned  R5  shall  satisfy  the 
following standards:

i)  a  minimum  depth  of  25  metres 
excluding  the  length  of  the  access 

handle;

ii)  no more than one allotment shall be 
accessed via a battle axe handle;

iii) a  minimum  access  handle  width  of 

3.5 metres; 

iv)   a maximum access handle length of 

########Page126

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.8
Residential
Subdivision 

35 metres;

v)  no  encroachment/s  or  right  of 
carriage way shall impinge into land 

within the access handle; 

vi)  the  provision  of  an  adequately 
dimensioned  vehicle  manoeuvring 

area,  located  behind  the  access 

handle; and

vii) the  provision  of  a  minimum  0.5 
metre  wide  landscape  strip  along 

the  length  of  the  access  handle, 

where it adjoins the boundary/fence 

of the neighbouring property. 

Figure 3.8.3     – Residential subdivision 

3.8.4 Subdivision of Dual Occupancies  
- Zones R2 and R3 

allowing  adequate  accessibility  for 

waste collection vehicles.

Design Requirements

a)  For  the  purposes  of  the  subdivision  of 
dual  occupancies,  all  allotments  to  be 

created  shall  be  part  of  a  Strata  Title 

scheme.

b)  Council  will  consider  a  development 
Title 
for 

application 

Torrens 

subdivision  for  the  purpose  of  dual 

occupancies  (being  the  only  dwellings 

in  the  development)  if  the  proposed 

subdivision 

satisfies 

the 

following 

standards:

i)  each  allotment  has  a  width  of  7.5 
the 
metres  measured  between 

extended  property  side  boundaries 

where  they  intersect  with  the  kerb 

line;

ii)  both  allotments  have    access  to  a 

public street;

iii) at  least  1  allotment  has  direct 

frontage to a public street;

iv)  a  minimum access handle width of 
3.5  metres  for  the  servicing  of  the 

rear allotment (if proposed); and

v)  where  a  battleaxe  allotment 

is 

created, no right of carriage way is 

proposed over the other allotments 

########Page127

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
3.8
Residential
Subdivision 

Note: For the purpose of clause 3.8.4 b) ii), 

an access handle does not constitute direct 

frontage to a public street.

Note:  Council  may  release  a  subdivision 

certificate for dual occupancies prior to the 

issuing of the occupation certificate, where 

the construction of the building  has passed 

the  frame  stage  by  the  relevant  PCA  and 

Council is satisfied that the building will be 

constructed as per the approved plans. 

3.8.5  Subdivision  for  the  Purpose  of 
Semi-detached  Dwellings  -  Zones  R2 
and R3
Design Requirements

a)  Council  will  consider  a  development 
application for Torrens Title subdivision 

of  a  site  for  the  purpose  of    semi-

detached  dwellings  (being  the  only 

dwellings in the development) if:

i)  each allotment has a direct frontage  

to a public street;

ii)  no common property is created;

iii) each  allotment  has  a  width  of  7.5 
the 
metres  measured  between 

extended  property  side  boundaries 

where  they  intersect  with  the  kerb 

line; and

iv)  no battleaxe allotments are created

Note: For the purpose of clause 3.8.5 a) iii), 

an access handle does not constitute direct 

frontage to a public street.

Note:  Council  may  release  a  subdivision 

certificate for semi-detached dwellings prior 

to the issuing of the occupation certificate, 

where the construction of the building  has 

passed the frame stage by the relevant PCA 

and Council is satisfied that the building will 

be constructed as per the approved plans. 

3.8.6  Subdivision  for  the  purpose  of 
Attached Dwellings - Zones R2 and R3
Design Requirements

########Page128

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)a)  Council  will  consider  a  development 
application for Torrens Title subdivision 

of  a  site  for  the  purpose  of    attached 

dwellings  (being  the  only  dwellings  in 

the development) if:

i)  each  allotment  has  direct  frontage  

to a public street;

ii)  no common property is created;

iii) each  allotment  has  a  width  of  7.5 
the 
metres  measured  between 

extended  property  side  boundaries 

where  they  intersect  with  the  kerb 

line; and

iv)  no battleaxe allotments are created

Note: For the purpose of clause 3.8.6 a) iii), 

an access handle does not constitute direct 

frontage to a public street.

Note:  Council  may  release  a  subdivision 

certificate  for  attached  dwellings  prior  to 

the  issuing  of  the  occupation  certificate, 

where the construction of the building  has 

passed the frame stage by the relevant PCA 

and Council is satisfied that the building will 

be constructed as per the approved plans. 

3.8.7 Subdivision of Multi  Dwelling      
Housing - Zone R2 and R3

a)  For  the  purposes  of  the  subdivision  of 
multi  dwelling  housing,  all  allotments 

to be created shall be part of a Strata 

Title Scheme.

b)  Despite  3.8.7  a)  Council  will  consider 
a  development  application  for  Torrens 
Title  subdivision  of    multi  dwelling 

housing, if each allotment satisfies the 

following standards:

i)  a minimum depth of 25 metres;

ii)  all  allotments/dwellings  within  the 
development have direct frontage to 

a public street;

iii) no common property is created;

iv)  a  minimum  width  of  7.5  metres  
measured  between  the  extended 

3.8
Residential
Subdivision 

########Page129

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.8
Residential
Subdivision 

property side boundaries where they 

intersect with the kerb line; and 

v)  no battle axe allotments are created.

Note: For the purpose of clause 3.8.7b) ii), 

an access handle does not constitute direct 

frontage to a public street.

c)  All required  visitors  car parking  spaces 
within a Strata Title subdivision shall be 

within common property.

Note: Council shall not release a subdivision 

certificate  for  multi  dwelling  housing  until 

an  occupation  certificate  (under  the  EP&A 

Act 1979) has been issued for all dwellings 

on the land.

3.8.8 Community Title Subdivision

Design Requirements

a)  Council  will  consider  the  creation  of 
community  title  allotments  subject  to 

the Council being satisfied that:

i)  the  development  provides 

for 

significant communal open space and 

recreation facilities with convenient 

and safe access for all occupants;

ii)  the  communal  open  space  and 
are  made 
facilities 

recreation 

available for the sole benefit of the 

occupants of that subdivision; 

iii) access  to  the  development  does 
not involve the erection of any gate 

structure/mechanism; and

iv)  all  other  relevant  requirements  for 
each  dwelling  type  are  complied 

with.

Note: All  roads  within  the  community title 

scheme  shall  be  designed  and  constructed 

to  satisfy  the  requirements  of  Council’s 

Engineering  Design  Guide  for  Development 

available  from  Council’s  website  at  www.

campbelltown.nsw.gov.au.

########Page130

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)3.8.9 Subdivision and Waste   
Management
Design Requirements

a)  Subdivision  shall  be  designed  and 
constructed so that upon completion:

i)  kerbside  waste  collection  vehicles 
are  able  to  access  bins  from  the 

kerbside  at  a  minimum  distance  of 

300mm,  and  a  maximum  distance 

of 1500mm from the left side of the 

vehicle to the bin;

ii)  adequate  space  behind  the  kerb  is 
provided  for  the  occupant  of  each 

premises to present 1 x 140 litre bin 

and 1 x 240 litre bin side-by-side, a 

minimum 300mm apart;

iii) where  it  is  not  possible  to  provide 
bin collection points immediately in 

front of  each allotment, a concrete 

pad  shall  be    constructed  at  the 

closest  practical  location  to  the 

allotment for garbage collection;

iv)  the 

location 

for 

kerbside 

presentation  provides  a  minimum  4 

metres  overhead  clearance  for  the 

operation  of  the  collection  vehicle 

(eg.  no  trees  or  transmission  lines 

overhanging the bins).

v)  waste 

collection 

vehicles 

are 

not  required  to  make  a  reverse 

movement to service bins.

3.8
Residential
Subdivision 

########Page131

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
This  page  is  intentionally  left 
blank. 

########Page132

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
Part 4 

Rural Residential 
Development 
and  Ancillary 
Rural Residential 
Structures     

4.1
Application

4.1 Application

Part 4 sets out the following:

 – General Requirements for rural residential development;

 – Development controls for the following rural residential structures:

• 

• 

fencing; and

outbuildings; 

 – Development controls for the following  rural residential development:

•  dwelling houses;

• 

rural workers’ dwelling; and

•  dual occupancies (attached);and

 – Development controls for rural residential subdivision on areas zoned RU2, RU5, 

E3 and E4.

The design requirements contained within Part 4 complement the provisions contained 

in Part 2, Volume 1. 

Note: 
For the purpose of this part, rural 
residential  development  means 
any of the following:

•  dwelling  houses  in  areas 
zoned  RU2,  RU5,  E3  and 

E4;

• 

rural  workers’  dwelling  in 

areas zoned RU2 and  E3;

•  dual occupancies attached 
in areas zoned E3 and E4;

• 

outbuildings 

on 

areas 

zoned  RU2,  RU5,  E3  and 

E4; and

• 

fencing 

in  areas  zoned 

RU2, RU5, E3 and E4.

Note: 

Qualifying  lot  sizes  for  rural 

residential  development  are 

included under the CLEP.

Zone Acronyms

RU2 Rural Landscape: RU2    

RU5 Village: RU5  

E3 Environmental Management: E3 

E4 Environmental Living: E4  

Note: 

Proposed residential development 

within Bush Fire Prone Lands  shall 

comply with the requirements of 

Planning for Bush Fire Protection 

2006 (as amended), prepared by 

NSW Rural Fire Service. 

Note:  Planning 

for  Bushfire 

Protection  2006  Document 

is 

available 

for 

view/download 

from  the  NSW  Rural  Fire  Service 

website at www.rfs.nsw.gov.au

########Page134

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)The Structure of Part 4
Rural Residential Development & Ancillary Rural Residential Structures

4.1
Application  

4.2
Desired Future 
Character  

4.3
General
Requirements

RU2, RU5, E3 

& E4

4.4
Ancillary 
Rural 
Residential 
Structures 

Fencing

4.5
Rural 
Residential

Dwelling Houses  

RU2, RU5, E3 & 

E4

3.6
Rural Residential 
Subdivision 

RU2, RU5, E3 

& E4 

Outbuildings 

Rural Worker’s 
Dwellings

RU2, RU5, E3 & 

E4

Dual 
Occupancies 
(Attached)

RU2 & E3

E3 & E4

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015                                                                              Effective:11/03/16

########Page135

 
4.2
Desired 
Future  
Character
Rural 
Residential 

4.2 Desired Future Character for Rural Residential Areas Zoned RU2, 

RU5, E3 and E4 

The areas zoned  RU2, RU5, E3 and E4 shall continue to be characterised by:

• 

rural  landscape  where  dwelling  houses  are  designed  to  blend  with  the  natural  

environment;  

•  dwelling houses with a scale and bulk that are not visually dominant;

•  buildings that are setback a generous distance from the primary street frontage 

to maintain the rural character of existing streets/landscape; 

•  buildings that are strategically sited on the least environmental sensitive part of 
the site having regard to site constraints such as slope, bushfire, drainage, on site 

effluent disposal, vegetation, threatened species and flooding constraints; and

• 

rural open fencing that respects the environmental and scenic quality of the rural 

landscape.

Note: 
Numerical  Development  Standards  for  building  heights  and  minimum  subdivision 
standards are provided under the CLEP.   

Figure  4.2.1  -  Examples  of  streetscapes/views  within  existing  rural  residential  areas 

within the Campbelltown LGA. 

########Page136

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)4.3
General 
Requirements 
for Rural 
Residential 
Development 

4.3.1
Building Form 
and Character 

4.3 General Requirements for Rural Residential Development - Zones

      RU2, RU5, E3 and E4

This Section provides general development controls for rural residential development in  

areas zoned RU2, RU5, E3 and E4. 

4.3.1 Building Form and Character 

Objectives: 

 ■ Ensure  that  the  aesthetic  and  environmental  values  of  rural  lands  are 

appropriately conserved.

 ■ Ensure that the massing, scale, form, colour and appearance of new development 
are complementary to the existing and desired rural residential character of the 

neighbourhood.

 ■ Ensure that buildings are designed to enhance the existing character of the rural 
areas by encouraging innovative and quality designs that fit harmoniously with 

their surroundings.

 ■ Ensure  that  parking  areas,  garages  and  driveways  are  appropriately  sited, 
designed and constructed so that they do not detract from the appearance of 

the development or character and landscape qualities of the area.

4.3.1.1 Siting & Streetscape

a)  Developments  shall  be  designed  to  fit 
the  existing  contours  and  landform  of 

the site and to minimise the amount of 

cut and fill. 

b)  Materials, colours and finishes of roofing, 
walls, driveways and fencing shall:

i)  not be obtrusive;

ii)  not  be  highly  reflective  and/or 

include bright colours;

iii) complement  or  be  recessive  to 
the  landscape  setting  in  which  the 

building is to be situated;and

iv)  be  submitted  to  Council  as  part  of 

the development application.

c)  Garages  and  outbuildings  shall  be  
designed and located so that they do not 

dominate the primary street frontage of 

the  building  as  viewed  from  the  street 

and prominent public places. 

d)  Garage doors facing public streets shall 

Figure  4.3.1.1  -  A  rural  residential 

dwelling.

########Page137

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)4.3
General 
Requirements 
for Rural 
Residential
Development 

4.3.1
Building Form 
and Character

be  no  wider  than  50%  of  the  width  of 

the main dwelling (at its street fronting 

facade).

e)  Highly  reflective  materials  and  bright 
colours for roofing shall not be allowed.

f)  Building  shall  not  be  sited  downstream 
from  existing  dams  in  order  to  reduce 

Note: 
For 

development 

controls  

the  potential  for  inundation  of  the 

landscaping,  weed  management, 

buildings if the dam fails or overtops. 

erosion and sediment controls, cut 

4.3.1.2 Building Height

Design Requirements

a)  The  height  of  development  shall  not 
result in any significant loss of amenity 

(including  loss  of  solar  access  and 

visual and acoustic privacy) to adjacent 

properties.

and  fill,  water  cycle  management 

and 

retaining  walls 

refer 

to 

Sections  2.5  to  2.13  of  Part  2  of 

Volume 1 of the Plan. 

########Page138

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)4.3.2 Car Parking and Access   

Objectives: 

 ■ Ensure efficient and safe vehicle and pedestrian movement within, into and out 

of development.

 ■ Ensure  that  the  location  and  design  of  driveways,  parking,  service  areas  and 
access  areas  are  practical,  easily  maintained,  convenient,  safe,  suitably 

landscaped and respect the broader landscape context.

4.3
General 
Requirements 
for Rural 
Residential 
Development 

4.3.2
Car Parking 
and Access 

Figure  4.3.2.1  -  An  example  of  a 

driveway  that  is  constructed  to  a 

standard  that  allows  for  all  weather 

access. 

Design Requirements

a)  The  minimum    dimensions    of  any 
required parking space shall be 2.5 x 5.5 

metres. 

b)  The  minimum  internal  dimensions  of 
an  enclosed  garage  shall  be  3.0  x  6.0 

metres.

c)  Transitional  grades  shall  comply  with 
AS2890.1 (as amended) Parking Facilities 

- Off-Street Car Parking. 

d)  Driveways  shall  meet  the  following 

criteria:

i)  constructed to a standard that allows 

for all weather access;

ii)  designed  and 

located 

to 

follow 

contours to avoid excessive site works, 

erosion and sedimentation run off;

iii) have a minimum width of 2.5 metres 
and a maximum width of 5.0 metres;

iv)  allow  for  entry  to  and  exit  from  the 
property in a forward direction; 

v)  located  to  minimise  the  impact  on 
vegetation and the removal of mature 

trees; and

vi)  one  (1)  driveway  access  is  permitted 
per  property,  in  addition  to  any 

access required by the NSW Rural Fire 

Service, where relevant.

e)  Driveways  shall  be  located  a  minimum 
distance  of  (six)  6  metres  from  the 

tangent  point  of  any  unsignalised 

########Page139

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)4.3
General 
Requirements 
for Rural 
Residential 
Development 

4.3.2
Car Parking 
and Access 

intersection (refer to Figure 4.3.2.2).

f)  Driveways  shall  be  designed  and 
constructed  so  that  they  do  not 

divert stormwater from the adjoining 

road onto the property. 

Note: 

In 

circumstances  where  an 

intersection 

is  controlled  by  traffic 

signals,  a  roundabout  or  the 

like, 

applicants  are  requested  to  contact 
Council for specific requirements. 

Note: 

For 

additional 

technical 

specifications  relating  to  gradient  of 

driveway  refer  to  Council’s  Engineering 

Design  for  Development  available  from 

Council’s website at: www.campbelltown.

nsw.gov.au

m
6

b
r
e
K

Tangent Point

Kerb

6 m

t
e
e
r
t

S

Boundary

6 m

Boundary

6 m

Figure 

4.3.2.2 

– 

Inappropriate 

locations of a driveway entry as shown  

by heavy edged lines.

########Page140

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
4.4 Ancillary Rural Residential Structures - Zones RU2, RU5, ..
   . E3 and E4

This section applies to ancillary rural residential structures including outbuildings, and 

fencing in areas zoned RU2, RU5, E3 and E4.

4.4.1  Fencing - Rural Residential 

Objectives: 

 ■ To  ensure  that  fencing  fronting  the  primary  and  secondary  streets  are  of  a 
material, colour, design and height that do not adversely impact on the scenic 

and environmental quality of the rural areas. 

4.4
Ancillary Rural 

Residential 

Structures

4.4.1 

Fencing 

Rural 

Residential

Note: 
For  the  purpose  of  this  part, 

ancillary 

rural 

residential 

structures means outbuildings, 

fencing, and the like. 

a)  Fencing shall:

i)  be a maximum of 1.8 metres in height; 

ii)  be of an open style for any part of the 
fence that is higher than  0.6 metres, 

except for the parts of the fence that 

are pillars or columns (refer to Figure 

4.4.1);

iii) not  be  constructed  of  solid  metal 
sheeting unless required by a Bush fire 

Risk Management  Plan prepared by a 

qualified person; and

iv)  complement 

the  design  of 

the 

development. 

b)  Despite 4.4.1a) above, entry gates to rural 
properties    and  fence  pillars/columns 

shall be permitted to be constructed of 

solid materials such as brick and the like.

c)  Fencing 

shall  not  obstruct  power, 
water, sewer, gas or telephone services, 

drainage  systems,  (including  overland 

flow paths) or any easements or rights of 

way.

d)  Fencing  on  corner  allotments  shall  not 
obstruct  the  sight  distance  of  traffic 

entering  or  within  an  intersection  or 

roundabout. 

e)  Details  of  fencing  shall  be  submitted 
with the development application for the 

Figure 4.4.1 - Examples of fencing 

- rural residential properties. 

Principal dwelling.

########Page141

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)f) 

If  the  land  on  which  a  fence  is  to  be 

erected is bush fire prone land, the fence 

or  retaining  wall  shall  be  constructed 

from non-combustible materials.

g)  A fence shall not be constructed so as to 
redirect  the  overflow  of  surface  water 

onto adjoining properties. 

4.4
Ancillary Rural 

Residential 

Structures

4.4.1 

Fencing 

Rural 

Residential

 Outbuildings Primary 

Secondary 

Side and Rear Setbacks in metres in 

Street Setback  in areas 

Street Setback   

metres (m)

zoned RU2, RU5, E3 and 

in metres (m)

E4

50m or in line with the front 

10m

5m  for  rural  properties  less  than  or 

elevation  of  an  existing 

dwelling  on  the  allotment, 

whichever is the lesser.

equal to 0.4 hectares in site area and 

10m for rural properties with site areas 

larger than 0.4 hectares. 

########Page142

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)4.4
Ancillary Rural 

Residential 

Structures

4.4.2 

Outbuildings 

4.4.2 Outbuildings - Rural Residential

Objectives: 

 ■ Encourage  quality-designed  outbuildings  that  make  a  positive  contribution  to 

the streetscape and scenic and rural character.

a)  The  combined  areas  of  all    ‘detached’  
carports  and 
(including 

outbuildings 

garages) shall be a maximum of:  

i)  150sqm on land having  a site area less 

than 2 hectares; and

ii)  250sqm on land having a site area of 2 

hectares or more.

b)  The  minimum  setbacks  for  a  domestic 
outbuilding shall be in accordance with the 

setback requirements shown in Table 4.4.2

c)  Outbuildings shall:

i)  incorporate  similar  or  complementary 
design  features,  finishes,  materials 

and  colours  to  those  of  the  principal 

dwelling;

ii)  not  contain  any  other  sanitary  fixtures 
other  than  a  toilet  and  a  hand  basin; 

and

iii) not  be  used 

for  any  habitable, 

commercial, industrial or any other use 

that are not ancillary to the residential 

use of the principal  dwelling.

iv)  be  designed  and  located  to  minimise 
the 

impacts 

adverse 

visual 

on 

environmental and scenic values.

Table 4.4.2 Setbacks for Outbuildings - Rural Residential 

 Outbuildings Primary 

Secondary 

Side and Rear Setbacks in metres in 

Street Setback  in areas 

Street Setback   

metres (m)

zoned RU2, RU5, E3 and 

in metres (m)

E4

50m or in line with the front 

10m

5m  for  rural  properties  less  than  or 

elevation  of  an  existing 

dwelling  on  the  allotment, 

whichever is the lesser.

equal to 0.4 hectares in site area and 

10m for rural properties with site areas 

larger than 0.4 hectares. 

########Page143

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)4.5
Rural 
Residential 
Development

4.5 Rural Residential Development - Zones  RU2, RU5, ..
   .  E3 and E4

This Section applies to the following rural  residential development:

•  dwelling houses in areas zoned RU2, RU5, E3 and E4;

• 

rural workers’ dwelling in areas zoned RU2 and  E3;and

•  dual occupancies (attached) in areas zoned E3 and E4.

Note: 

Numerical Development Standards for building heights, minimum lot sizes, ownership, 

and subdivision for rural residential development are provided under the CLEP.

Figure 4.5.1. Examples of existing rural residential development within the Campbelltown 

LGA. 

########Page144

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)4.5

Rural 
Residential 
Development

4.5.1
Dwelling 
Houses

4.5.1 Dwelling Houses - Rural Residential - Zones RU2, RU5, E3 and E4

Objectives: 

 ■ Encourage  quality-designed  dwelling  houses  that  are  generally  recessive  and 
make a positive contribution to the streetscape and the rural character of the 

locality. 

a)  The  minimum  setbacks  for  a    dwelling 
house  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the 

setback requirements for dwelling houses 

shown in Table 4.5.1.

Note:
To  find  out  whether  your  site  has  a 

sufficient  area  to    qualify  for  a  dwelling 

Note:
Dwelling house (as defined under 

the  CLEP)  means  a  building 

containing only one dwelling.

Note: 
For  Provision  of  Services  (water, 

house  type  development,  refer  to  the 

electricity  and  waste  water 

CLEP.

Note: 
For  development  controls    relating  to 

landscaping,  weed  management,  erosion 

and sediment controls, cut and fill, water 

treatment requirements), refer to 

Section  2.16  Provision  of  Services 

under Part 2 of the Plan. 

Note: 
The  CLEP  includes  a  number  of 

cycle  management  and  retaining  walls 

requirements  relation  to  rural 

refer  to  Sections  2.5  to  2.13  of Part  2  of 

areas  and  rural  subdivision  under 

Volume 1 of the Plan.  

Part  4  Principal  development 

standards.

Table 4.5.1 Setbacks for Dwelling Houses - Rural Residential 

Lot 

Size 

in 

  Primary Street Setback in metres 

Side, Rear  and Secondary 

hectares  (ha)

(m)

Street Setbacks in metres 

Single Storey

Double Storey

Less  than  or  equal 

15 m

to 1 ha

Greater than 1 ha

35 m

20 m

50 m

(m)

10 m

10 m

Figure 4.5.1.1 An example of a rural dwelling house in the Campbelltown LGA. 

########Page145

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
4.5
Rural 
Residential 
Development

4.5.2
Rural 
Worker’s 
Dwelling 

4.5.2 Rural Workers’ Dwelling - Zones RU2 and  E3 

Objectives: 

 ■ Ensure that rural workers’ dwellings  are of small scale and remain subordinate 

development.

 ■ Ensure that rural workers’ dwellings do not adversely impact on the amenity of 

adjoining properties. 

 ■ To maintain the predominant rural character of the area.

a)  A  rural  worker’s  dwelling  shall  have 
the  same  road  access  as  the  principal 

dwelling. 

b)  An  application  for  a  rural  worker’s 
dwelling  shall  demonstrate  to  Council 

Note: 
Rural  worker’s  dwelling  means  a 

building or place that is additional 

to  a  dwelling  house  on  the  same 

that the rural worker’s dwelling shall be 

lot and that is used predominantly 

occupied by an employee of the farm or 

as a place of residence by persons 

a contractor. 

c)  The  minimum  setbacks  for  a  rural 
worker’s dwelling  shall be in accordance 

with  the  setbacks  requirements  shown 

in Table 4.5.2.

Note:

Rural  Workers  Dwellings  are  only 

permissible    within  Zone  RU2  and  

E3 under the CLEP.

employed,  whether  on  a  long-

term  or  short-term  basis,  for  the 

purpose  of  agriculture  or  a  rural 

industry on that land.

Note: 

Despite  any  other  provision  of 

this  Plan,  rural  developments 

within  Bush  Fire  Prone  Lands 

must  comply  with  the  setbacks 

requirements  under  Planning  for 

Bush  Fire  Protection  2006,  NSW 

Rural Fire Services   (as amended).  

Refer to Section 2.14.3 of Volume 

1 of the Plan.

Table 4.5.2 Setbacks for Rural Workers’ Dwelling - Rural Residential 

Lot Size in Hectares (ha)

  Primary Street 

Side, Rear  and Secondary 

less than or equal 

15m

Setback in metres 

Street Setbacks in metres 

to 1ha

Less than or equal to 1ha

Greater than  1ha

(m)

15m

35m

(m)

10m

10m

########Page146

Lot 

Size 

in 

  Primary Street Setback in metres 

Side, Rear  and Secondary 

Hectares (ha)  

(m)

Street Setbacks in metres 

Single Storey

Double Storey

20m

50m

(m)

10m

10m

Greater than 1ha 

35m

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
4.5.3 Dual Occupancies (Attached) - Rural Residential (Zones RU2, E3 
and E4)

Objectives: 

 ■ Encourage quality-designed  dual occupancies that make a positive contribution 
to the streetscape and the rural character and maintain the existing character 

of the area.

4.5
Rural 
Residential 
Development 

4.5.3 
Dual 
Occupancy 

a)  The  minimum  setbacks  for  a  dual 
in 
(attached) 

occupancy 

shall  be 

accordance with the setback requirements 

shown in Table 4.5.3.

b)  A 

rural 

residential  dual  occupancy 

(attached) development shall:

Note:
Dual  occupancy  (attached)  (as 

defined  under  the  CLEP)  means 

2  dwellings  on  one  lot  of  land 

that  are  attached  to  each  other, 

but  does  not  include  a  secondary 

i)  be  constructed  under  the  same  roof 

dwelling. 

line; and

ii)  shall  have  the  appearance  of  one 

dwelling.

c)  Where  a  development 

involves  the 

construction  of  an  additional      dwelling 

to  create  an  attached    dual  occupancy, 

the  existing dwelling shall be renovated 

to  match  the  colour,  material,  texture 

and  architectural  style  of  the  proposed 

building  so  as  to  create  a  harmonious 

development.

Note: 
Dual occupancy (detached) are not 

permissible  within    Zones    RU2, 

RU5, E3 and E4 under the CLEP.  

Dual  occupancy  (attached)  are  

permissible within  Zones  RU2, E3 

and E4 under the CLEP. 

Note:
Refer  to  the  CLEP  to  find  out 

whether your site qualifies for dual 

Note: Attaching  two  dwellings    via  a  breeze 

occupancies  type development.

way  or  a  carport  shall  not  be  considered  to 

meet  the  requirements  of  Clause  4.5.3  c) 

above. 

Table 4.5.3 Setbacks for Dual Occupancies (Attached) - Rural Residential 

Lot 

Size 

in 

  Primary Street Setback in metres 

Side, Rear  and Secondary 

Hectares (ha)  

(m)

Street Setbacks in metres 

Single Storey

Double Storey

less than or equal 

15m

to 1ha

Greater than 1ha 

35m

20m

50m

(m)

10m

10m

########Page147

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)4.6 Rural Residential Subdivision 

This Section applies to the rural residential subdivision of areas zoned RU2, RU5, E3 and 

E4.

Objective: 

 ■ Ensure that land once subdivided, contributes positively to the desired character 
of the locality and provides for the safe and attractive integration of existing 

and new development.

 ■ Ensure that subdivision responds to the physical characteristics of the land, its 
landscape setting, orientation, landmarks and key vistas to and from that land.

 ■ Ensure that subdivision provides safe connections with and extension of existing 
street  patterns,  as  well  as  any  pedestrian,  cycleway  and  public  open  space 

networks.

 ■ Encourage  subdivision  that  will  result  in  the  creation  of  allotments  that  are 
orientated,  and  of  such  dimension  and  configuration  to  facilitate  the  siting, 

design and construction of development resulting in the conservation of non-

renewable resources and the environmental attributes of the land.

4.6.1 Subdivision of Allotments

4.6.1.1  Subdivision  of  Allotments  - 
0.2ha minimum (letter V on the Lot Size 
Map Sheet of the CLEP) 

a)  Allotments that are subject to the 0.2ha 
minimum  lot  size  subdivision  standard 

shall:

Note: 

Where  the  subdivision  results 

in  a 

  battle-axe  allotments 

configuration  or  the  like,  the 

i)  have  a  minimum  street  frontage  of 

access  handle  shall  not  be 

30 metres;

ii)  have  a  minimum  frontage  to  depth 

ratio  of 1:2.

b)  Battle-axe allotments that are subject to 
the 0.2ha minimum lot size subdivision 

standard shall:

included  in  the  minimum  area 

calculations (Refer to Clause 4.1 

of the CLEP). 

Note:
Refer  to  the  CLEP  for  further 

requirements on Rural Subdivision.

i)  have a minimum width of 30 metres; 

ii)  have  a  minimum  frontage  to  depth 

ratio  of 1:2;

iii) have  a  minimum  area  of  0.2ha 

excluding access handle; and

iv)  have  a  minimum  width  of  access 

4.6
Rural 
Residential 
Subdivision 

4.6.1
Subdivision
of 
Allotments 

########Page148

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)handle of (six) 6 metres. 

c)  Where two access handles to battle-axe 
allotments are located adjacent to each 

other,  reciprocal  rights  of  carriageway 

shall  be  created  so  that  only  one  drive 

way needs to be constructed. 

4.6.1.2  Subdivision  of  Allotments  - 
0.4ha minimum (letter W on the Lot Size 
Map Sheet of the CLEP) 

a)  Allotments that are subject to the 0.4ha 
minimum  lot  size  subdivision  standard 

shall:

i)  have a minimum street frontage of 45 

metres;

ii)  have  a  minimum  frontage  to  depth 

ratio  of 1:2.

b)  Battle-axe  allotments  that  are  subject 
to  0.4ha  minimum  lot  size  subdivision 

standard shall:

i)  have a minimum width of 45 metres; 

ii)  have  a  minimum  frontage  to  depth 

ratio  of 1:2;

iii) have  a  minimum  area  of  0.4ha 

excluding access handle; and

iv)  have  a  minimum  width  of  access 

handle of 6 metres. 

c)  Where two access handles to battle-axe 
allotments are located adjacent to each 

other,  reciprocal  rights  of  carriageway 

shall  be  created  so  that  only  one  drive 

way needs to be constructed. 

4.6.1.3 Subdivision of Allotments - 1ha,  
2ha, 3ha and 4ha minimum)(letter Y, Z, 
Z1 and Z2 on the Lot Size Map Sheet of 
the CLEP) 

a)  Allotments  that  are  subject  to  the 
1ha  2ha,  3ha  and  4ha    minimum  lot 

size  subdivision  standard  shall  have  a 

minimum street frontage of 60 metres.

b)  Battle axe allotments that are subject to 
the 1ha, 2ha, 3ha and 4ha minimum lot 

size subdivision standard shall:

4.6

 Rural 
Residential
Subdivision

4.6.1
Subdivision
of 
Allotments

########Page149

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)4.6
Rural 
Residential 
Subdivision

4.6.2
Construction
of Roads  

i)  have a minimum width of  60 metres; 

and

ii)  have  a  minimum  width  of  access 

handle of 6 metres. 

c)  Where two access handles to battle-axe 
allotments are located adjacent to each 

other,  reciprocal  rights  of  carriageway 

shall  be  created  so  that  only  one  drive 

way needs to be constructed. 

4.6.1.4  Subdivision  of  Allotments  - 
10ha, 40ha and 100ha (letters AB, AB1 
and AD on the Lot Size Map Sheet of the 
CLEP) 

a)  Allotments  that  are  subject  to  the 
10ha,  40ha  and  100ha  minimum  lot 

size    subdivision  standard  shall  have  a 

minimum street frontage of 120 metres.

4.6.2 Construction of Roads 

Design Requirements 

a)  Proposed  roads  and  any  proposed 
changes  to  existing  roads  shall  be 

constructed in accordance with Council’s 

Engineering  Design  for  Development 

available  from  Council’s  website  at 

www.campbelltown.nsw.gov.au.

b)  Where relevant, roads shall be designed 
to provide satisfactory level of services 

for  the  evacuation  of  occupants  in  the 

event of emergency.

c)  Roads  shall  be  designed  given  regard 
to  terrain  sensitivity  and  maximising 

ecological conservation.

########Page150

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)4.6
Residential 
Subdivision 
of Non-Urban 
Land 

4.6.3
Construction
of
Farm Dams 

4.6.3 Construction of Farm Dams  

Design Requirements 

a)  A  development  application  shall  be 
lodged with Council for any proposal that 

involves the construction of a new farm 

dam or modification to an existing dam.

b)  Dam  construction  shall  comply  with  the 
requirements  of  NSW  Office  of  Water 

Guidelines.

c)  All  development  applications  for  any 
proposal that involves the construction of 

a new dam or modification to an existing 

dam shall be accompanied by:

i)  all  licences  required  by  the    NSW 
Office  of  Water  or  NSW  Department 
of  Investment  and  Industries  where 

relevant; 

ii)  a  geotechnical  report  prepared  by  a 

suitably qualified person; and

iii) as  assessment  by  a  suitably  qualified 
local 

person  of  the  changes  to 

hydrology that the dam may create. 

d)  Any  farm  dam  that  is  proposed  to  be 
located  upstream  of  an  existing  or 

proposed  dwelling  shall  be  referred 

by  Council  to  the  NSW  Dams  Safety 

Committee for concurrence. 

Note: 

When  building  a  farm  dam,  it  is 

important  to  make  sure  that  the 

appropriate  consent  or  licence 

from  the  relevant  government 

authority has been obtained.

For  Information  on    farm  dams 

licences  contact  the  NSW  Office 

of Water. Website www.water.nsw.

gov.au 

Under  the  Fisheries  Management 

Act  1994,  any  new  dam  or 

modification  to  an  existing  dam 

may require the owner to provide 

for  fish  passage.  NSW  Fisheries 

Office website:

h t t p : / / w w w. d p i . n s w. g o v. a u /

fisheries

########Page151

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)This  page  is  intentionally  left 
blank. 

########Page152

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
Part 5

Residential Flat 
Buildings and 

Mixed-Use  
Development 

5.1
Application

5.1 Application

Part 5 sets out the following:

 – Desired  future  character  for  high  density  residential  neighbourhoods  in  areas 

zoned R4.

 – Desired future character for mixed use precincts in areas zoned B3 and B4.

 – General Requirements for residential flat buildings and mixed use development 

in areas zoned R4, B3 and B4 zones.

 – Development controls for:

• 

residential flat buildings in areas zoned R4;

•  mixed use development in areas zoned  B3 and B4; and

•  mixed use development in areas zoned RU5, B1 and B2.

The design requirements contained within this part complement the provisions contained 
in Part 2 of Volume 1. 

Note: 
For the purposes of this part, mixed 
use  development  is  development 
which  includes  residential  uses  
(such  as  shop  top  housing  where 
relevant)  in  conjunction  with  one 
or  more  uses  such  as,  business 
premises, 
commercial  offices, 
retail  shops,  community  facilities 
and medical centres.

Zone Acronyms

RU5 Village: RU5

R4 High Density Residential: R4

B1 Neighbourhood Centre: B1

B2 Local Centre: B2

B3 Commercial Core: B3

B4 Mixed Use: B4

Note: 
Numerical Development Standards 
for building heights, qualifying site 
areas  and  minimum  subdivision  
are provided under the CLEP.   

Note: 
Clause  7.13  Design  Excellence  of 
the  CLEP  applies  to  areas  zoned 
R3,  R4,  B2,  B3  and  B4  and  aims 
to deliver the highest standard of 
architectural and urban design, as 
part of the built environment.  

Note: 
Under  the  CLEP,  shop  top  housing 
is  a  permissible  use  under  the 
following zones: 

•  RU5 Village ;

•  R3 

Medium 

Density 

Residential;

•  R4 High Density Residential; 

•  B1 Neighbourhood Centre 

•  B2 Local Centre

•  B3 Commercial Core; and 

•  B4 Mixed Use.  

########Page154

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)The Structure of Part 5
Residential Flat Buildings, and Mixed-Use  Development 

5.1
Application  

5.2
  Desired 
Future Character 
(High Density 
Residential)

5.3
  Desired 
Future Character 
(Mixed-use)

5.4 General
Requirements

5.5 Residential 
Flat Buildings 

5.6 Mixed -Use 
Development 

5.7 Mixed Use 
Development

  RU5, R4, 
B1, B2, B3 
& B4 

R4 

 B3 & B4

R4, B3 & B4

R4 

B3 & B4 

 RU5, B1 & 
B2

########Page155

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015                                                                                       Effective:11/03/165.2

5.2  Desired  Future  Character  for  High  Density  Residential 
Neighbourhoods (R4)

Desired 
Future 
Character 
for
High Density 
Residential
Neighbourhoods  

(Zone R4)

High density residential neighbourhoods shall be characterised by:

•  building forms that have a high level of architectural merit and make a positive 

contribution to the local area;

a diversity if high density residential forms;

residential forms that provide high quality residential living environments;

integration with high intensity public transport forms and fine grained pedestrian/
cycleway networks;

access to a sage and high quality public domain;

articulated front facades with balconies and deep soil planting and landscaping 
of street frontages.

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Figure 5.2.1 - An example 
of high density residential 
development. 

########Page156

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)5.3 Desired Future Character for Mixed Use Precinct (B3 and B4) 

The areas  shall be characterised by:

•  buildings with a high level of architectural merit in which residential dwellings 

are located on higher levels;

• 

• 

• 

articulated front facades with balconies and podiums fronting the streets;

active street frontages  in which buildings at street level are used primarily for 
the purpose of retail and commercial uses;

an accessible, attractive, vibrant and safe public domain;

•  built forms that provide high quality residential living environments and considered 

integration of commercial/retail activities with the residential elements;

•  mixed use development supported by a significant local and visitor population;

• 

integration with high intensity public transport forms and fine grained pedestrian/
cycleway networks.

5.3
Desired 
Future 
Character 
for
Mixed Use  
Precincts  

(Zones B3 & 
B4) 

Figure 5.3.1 - An example of a mixed use development. 

########Page157

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)5.4
General 

Requirements 

for Residential 

5.4 General Requirements for Residential Flat Buildings and Mixed 
Use Development 

This section sets out general development controls relating to residential flat buildings 
and  mixed use development within areas zoned R4, B3 and B4.

Flat Buildings 

Objective: 

&

 Mixed Use 

Development 

(Zones R4,B3 

& B4) 

 ■ Ensure that residential flat buildings and mixed use development, offer a high 
level of residential amenity and make a positive contribution to the creation of 
new, high quality and contemporary urban streetscapes by:

 •

 •

 •

achieving  well  articulated  building  forms  that  avoid  a  plain  bulky 
and monolithic appearance;

adopting appropriate building scale, massing and proportions that 
best reflect the desired future character of the area; and

demonstrating high architectural value.

 ■ Ensure that residential dwellings within mixed use development include design 
measures that minimise the impact of the normal operation of non-residential 
activities on the amenity of the occupants of the residential dwellings.

 ■ Ensure  that  non-residential  components  of  the  building  (i.e  lower  level  retail 
and commercial) include design measures and are to minimise noise, odour, light 
spill, and air pollution impacts upon residential properties.

5.4.1 Relationship of the Plan to SEPP 
........65 Design Quality of Residential 
........Flat Development

a) 

In addition to  satisfying   the requirements  
  the  Plan,  all  residential  flat 
of 
buildings,and  mixed  use  development 
having a height greater than 12 metres 
or  4  or  more  self-contained  dwellings 
(whether  or  not  the  building  includes 
uses for other purposes, such as  shops) 
shall  satisfy  all  the  standards  within 
State  Environmental  Planning  Policy 
No.  65  -  Design  Quality  of  Residential 
Flat  Development 
(SEPP  65)  and 
Apartment  Design  Guide  (Published  by 
the  NSW  Department  of  Planning  and 
Environment, July 2015). 

5.4.1 

Figure 
contemporary 
building. 

Example 
residential 

of 
flat 

########Page158

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Note: 
Clause  7.18  Design  Excellence 
of  the  CLEP  applies  to  zones 
R4, B2, B3 and B4 and aims to 
deliver  the  highest  standard 
of  architectural  and  urban 
design,  as  part  of  the  built 
environment.  

5.4
General 

Requirements 

for Residential 

Flat Buildings 

&

 Mixed Use 

Development 

(Zones R4, B3 

& B4) 

Figure  5.4.2  Example  of  external 
facade  treatment  that  provide 
variety  and  articulation  through 
use  of  varying  material  types 
and  variation  of  building  vertical 
height elements. 

5.4.2 Building Form and Character

Design Requirements: 

a)  Building design shall consider foremost 
the  qualities  (both  natural  and  built) 
and the desired future character of the 
areas  including  the  significance  of  any 
heritage item on the land.

b)  Building  design 

shall 

incorporate 
the  following  features  to  assist  in 
the  achievement  of  high  quality 
architectural outcomes:

i)  incorporation 

appropriate 
of 
facade  treatments  that  help  the 
development  properly  address  the 
respective  street  frontages,  key 
vistas  and  to  add  visual  interest  to 
the skyline;

ii)  incorporation  of  articulation 

in 
walls,  roof  lines,  variety  of  roof 
pitch,  individualised  architectural 
features 
columns, 
(balconies, 
porches, colours, materials etc) into 
the facade of the building;

iii) variation 

in  the  vertical  planes 
of  exterior  walls  in  depth  and/or 
direction;

iv)  variation 

in 

the  vertical  and 
horizontal  planes  of  the  building 
so  that  the  building  appears  to  be 
divided  into  distinct  base,  middle 
and top massing elements;

v)  articulation  of 

from 

  building  facade 
(including  rear  and  side  elevations 
visible 
a  public  place) 
by  appropriate  use  of  colour, 
arrangement  of  facade  elements, 
and  variation 
in  the  types  of 
materials used;

vi)  utilisation 

of 

landscaping 

and 
interesting architectural detailing at 
the ground level; and

vii) avoidance  of  blank  walls  at  ground 

and lower levels.

########Page159

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)c)  Building  design 
to  Council’s 
development will:

shall  demonstrate 
the 

that 

satisfaction 

i)  facilitate  casual  surveillance  and 
active interaction with the street;

ii)  be  sufficiently  setback  from  the 
property  boundary  to  enable  the 
planting  of  vegetation  to  soften  the 
visual impact of the building at street 
level; and

iii) maximise  cross  flow  ventilation, 
therefore minimising the need for air 
conditioning.

d)  Building  colours,  materials  and  finishes 
shall generally achieve subtle contrast. 
The  use  of  highly  reflective  or  gloss 
materials or colours shall be minimised 
to feature and highlight element only.

e)  Building materials shall be high quality, 

durable and low maintenance.

 5.4.3 Site Services 

Design Requirements:

a)  The location, design and construction of 
utility services shall satisfy requirements 
of  the  relevant  servicing  authority  and 
Council.

b)  Development shall ensure that adequate 
for  all 
provision  has  been  made 
essential services (i.e water, sewerage, 
electricity, gas, telephone, internet and 
stormwater drainage).

c)  All  roof-mounted  air  conditioning  or 
heating  equipment,  vents  or  ducts,  lift 
wells and the like shall not be visible from 
any public place and shall be integrated 
into the design of the development.

d)  All communication dishes, antennae and 
the  like  shall  be  located  or  integrated 
into  the  built  form  so  as  to  minimise 
visual prominence.

e)  An  external 

lighting  plan  shall  be 
prepared  by  a  suitably  qualified  person 
and  submitted  with  the  development 

5.4
General 

Requirements 

for Residential 

Flat Buildings 

&

 Mixed Use 

Development 

(Zones R4,B3 

& B4)  

########Page160

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)application.

f)  All  site  services  areas  including  any 
associated  equipment  and  storage 
structures    shall  be  incorporated  into 
the design of the building and screened 
from public view.

g)  An 

on-going  waste  management 
plan  shall  be  prepared  by  a  suitably 
qualified person and submitted with the 
development application.

5.4.4 Acoustic Privacy 

a)  Residential  flat  buildings,  and  the 
residential  component  of  a  mixed-
use  development  shall  provide  noise 
mitigation measures to ensure that the 
following LAeq levels are not exceeded:

i)  in  any  bedroom  in  the  building—35 

dBA ,

ii)  anywhere else in the building (other 
than a garage, kitchen, bathroom or 
hallway)—40 dBA.

Figure  5.4.3  –  Location  of  site 
services  for  a  residential  flat 
building.

b)  Residential  flat  buildings,  and  the 
residential  component  of  a  mixed-use 
development  near  railway  corridors 
and  major  roads  shall  demonstrate 
to  Council’s  satisfaction    compliance 
with  the  requirements  under  the 
Guidelines  entitled  Development  Near 
Rail Corridors and Busy Roads – Interim 
Guideline, 2008)

Note:  This  Guide  is  available  for  view/
download  from  the  NSW  Department  of 
Planning  &  Environment  website  at:  www.
planning.nsw.gov.au.

for 
Note:  Noise  mitigation  measures 
residential flat buildings and the residential 
component  of  a  mixed  use  development 
may  include  insulating  building  elements 
such as doors, walls,  windows, floors, roof 
and  ceilings.  Options  for  window  design 
include sealing air gaps around windows and 
doors, laminated or thick glass, and double-
glazing. 

5.4
General 

Requirements 

for Residential 

Flat Buildings 

&

 Mixed Use 

Development 

(Zones R4,B3 

& B4) 

########Page161

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Figure  5.4.4  -  Example  of  a  garbage 
and 
room  
(Internal view).

collection 

recycling 

5.4
General 

Requirements 

for Residential 

Flat Buildings 

5.4.5 Vehicular Access 

a)  Residential flat buildings and   mixed-use 
developments  shall  only  be  permitted 
where Council is satisfied that existing 
road networks are capable of providing 
safe and efficient vehicle access  to and 
from the proposed development.

&

5.4.6 Stormwater Drainage 

 Mixed Use 

Development 

(Zones R4,B3 

& B4) 

a)  Residential flat buildings and   mixed-use 
developments  shall  only  be  permitted 
where Council is satisfied that sufficient 
provisions made for the management of 
stormwater.  All  necessary  upgrades  to 
existing public and private stormwater 
infrastructure  shall  be  addressed  as 
part  of  the  proposed  development 
in  accordance  with 
and  shall  be 
Council’s Engineering Design Guide for 
Development (available from Council’s 
website  at  www.campbelltown.nsw.
gov.au)

5.4.7 Thermal Comfort 

a)  Residential  flat  buildings  and  mixed-
use  developments  shall  be  designed 
to  maximise  natural  thermal  comfort 
for  occupants  through  the  use  of 
appropriate 
materials. 
building 
Examples  include  the  use  of  energy 
efficient glazing and/or shading devices 
for windows and the like.

5.4.8  Waste Management

5.4.8.1 Number of Bins

a)  All  buildings  shall  be  provided  with 
household garbage bins at the following 
rates:

i)  a  240  litre  bin  per  2.5  dwellings/
week for household garbage; or

ii)  1,100 litre bulk bin per 10  dwellings 
or part thereof, but only if the bulk 
bin is stored and located within the 
property where the waste collection 
truck  is  able  to  enter  and  exit  the 
property  in    a  forward-in  forward-
out  arrangement  with  a  maximum 

########Page162

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)three point turning path. 

b)  All  buildings  shall  be  designed  with 
provision for recyclable  bins  at  a  ratio 
of  one  240  litre  bin  per  2.5  dwellings 
per fortnight.

5.4.8.2 Waste Service Rooms, Garbage 
Chutes  and  Provision  for  Recyclables 
Bins

a)  All  buildings  with  a  rise  of  four  (4)  
storeys or more  shall make provision for 
a waste service room on each section of 
each  level  which  is  accessible    for  all 
occupants.

b)  All  waste  service  rooms  shall  have 
chutes to enable residents to dispose of 
garbage. 

c)  Chutes  shall  not  be  located  adjacent 
to  bedrooms  or  living  rooms  unless 
bedrooms  unless  they  are  outside  the 
sound  transmission  barrier  surrounding 
each unit.

d)  Chutes  shall  feed  into  appropriately 
sized  bins  located  in  the  bin  storage 
room.

e)  The  outlet  area,  in  which  the  chute 
outlets  and  mechanical  collection 
devices  are  located,  shall  be  secured 
to  prevent  access  by  unauthorised 
persons.

f)  While mechanical devices are permitted 
in order to assist with waste collection 
is 
(eg.  carousel),  no  compaction 
permitted 
for  either  garbage  or 
recyclables.

g)  Each  waste  service  room  shall  make 
provision  for  a  sufficient  number  of 
240-litre  mobile  recyclable  bins  for 
residents  on  each  floor  to  dispose  of 
recyclables.

Figure  5.4.5  -  Example  of  waste 
chute  within  a  residential  flat 
building.

5.4
General 

Requirements 

for Residential 

Flat Buildings 

&

 Mixed Use 

Development 

(Zones R4,B3 

& B4) 

########Page163

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)5.4
General 

Requirements 

for Residential 

Flat Buildings 

&

 Mixed Use 

Development 

(Zones R4,B3 

& B4)  

5.4.8.3 Bin Storage Room

Design Requirements

a)  The  development  shall  make  provision 
for  an  appropriately  sized  bin  storage 
room(s) that provides convenient access 
for  occupants  and  waste  collection 
personnel . The storage room shall:

i)  be  located  behind  the  primary  and 

secondary building alignment;

ii)  have a non slip floor constructed of 
concrete or other approved material 
at  least  75mm  thick  and  provided 
with a ramp to the doorway (where 
necessary);

iii) be  graded  and  drained  to  a  Sydney 
Water approved drainage fitting;

iv)  have  coving  at  all  wall  and  floor 

intersections;

v)  be  finished  with  a  smooth  faced, 
non-absorbent  material(s)  in  a  light 
colour  and  capable  of  being  easily 
cleaned;

vi)   be provided with an adequate supply 
of hot and cold water mixed through 
a centralised mixing valve with hose 
cock; and

vii) have  a  self-closing  door  openable 

from within the room.

b)  Bin  storage  rooms  shall  be  ventilated 

by:

i)  a  mechanical  exhaust  ventilation 

system; or

ii)   permanent,  unobstructed  natural 
ventilation  openings  having  direct 
access  to  external  air,  and  a  total 
area  of  not  less  than  one-twentieth 
(1/20th)  of  the  floor  area  of  the 
room. 

c)  Exterior doors of communal bin storage 

rooms shall be:

i)  consistent with the overall design of 

the building; 

########Page164

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)ii)  located  away  from  the  frontage  of 

the building; and

iii) (if collection service is to be carried 
out by Council), fitted with a Council 
compatible  keyed  locking  system 
that  provides access  to the  room or 
activates the electronic opening and 
closing of the door. 

d)  All bin storage rooms and service rooms 
shall be constructed in such a manner to 
prevent the entry of vermin.

e)  All bin storage rooms must be located in 
an area where bins can be easily moved 
to  the waste collection point.

f)  Where  waste  collection  personnel 
are  required  to  enter  the  premises  to 
service  bins,  the  collection  point  shall 
be no further than five metres from the 
collection vehicle. 

g)  Where  residents  have  access  to  bin 
storage  rooms,  signage  on  the  correct 
use  of  the  waste  management  system 
shall  be  displayed  in  all    bin  storage 
rooms.

h)  Developments  must  make  provision  for 
the  storage  of  bulk  waste  (kerbside 
clean-up) materials, including:

i)  a minimum  area of 10sqm;

ii)  the  area  must  be  accessible  to  all 

residents;and

iii) the  area  must  not  be  more  than  10 
metres  from  the  waste  collection 
point.

5.4.8.4 Waste  Collection 

a)  Any development containing 20 or more 
dwellings  and/or  the  number  of  bins 
proposed  cannot  be  accommodated 
within 50% of the development’s frontage 
on collection day (the calculation shall 
allow  for  300mm  separation  distance 
on  either  side  of  each  bin)  shall  be 
designed  to  accommodate  a  forward-
in  forward-out  drive-on  collection  for 

5.4
General 

Requirements 

for Residential 

Flat Buildings 

&

 Mixed Use 

Development 

(Zones R4,B3 

& B4) 

########Page165

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)5.4
General 

Requirements 

for Residential 

Flat Buildings 

&

 Mixed Use 

Development 

(Zones R4,B3 

& B4) 

on-site  servicing.  The  designated  area 
must meet the following requirements:

i)  there  shall  be  a  minimum  height 

clearance of 5.2 metres;

ii)  there shall be provision for a waste 
collection  vehicle  to  empty  bins  on 
the  vehicle’s  left  side,  allowing  for 
a width of 3.8 metres from the right 
side of the vehicle to the collection 
point;

iii) where  the  waste  collection  vehicle 
is  required  to  turn  around  on  site, 
there must be provision for a vehicle 
of 10.4 metres length to negotiate a 
maximum  three-point  turn  allowing 
the  waste  collection  truck  to  enter 
and leave the property in a forward 
direction;

iv)  the  maximum  grade  of  any  path  of 
travel for collection vehicle shall be 
1V:20H  for  the  first  6  metres  from 
the street, and 1V:12H thereafter;

v)  the  minimum  path  width  for  a 
collection vehicle shall be 3.6 metres 
wide; and

vi)  constructed to withstand the  loaded 
mass of the waste collection vehicle 
of 24 tonnes.

5.4.8.5  Strata Subdivision 

a)  No  more  than  50%  of  the  required  car 
parking within a strata title subdivision 
shall  be  allocated 
individual  
commercial units within the mixed-use 
development.

to 

b)  All car parking spaces that are allocated 
to  individual units shall be  proportioned 
in number to the size of the units. 

c)  No car parking spaces shall be created 

as a separate allotment.

d)  Car parking provided for the residential 
dwellings  shall  be  secured,  separated 
from    commercial  car  parking  (where 
relevant) and have a separate access.

########Page166

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)take 

into  consideration 

e)  The  design  of  car  parking  spaces 
shall 
the 
principles of Crime Prevention Through 
to 
Environmental  Design 
minimise  opportunities  for  crime  and 
enhance security.

(CPTED) 

f)  No  internal  or  outdoor  storage  space 
shall be created as a separate allotment.

5.4.9  Access for People with Disabilities

Design Requirements

a)  Residential  flat  buildings  and  mixed 
use  development    shall  comply  with 
the  minimum  access 
requirements 
contained within  the BCA , the Disability 
(Access 
to  Premises  —  Buildings) 
Standards 2010 and Australian Standard 
1428  –  Design  for  Access  and  Mobility 
(as amended).

5.4.10 Advertising Material 

a)  As  part  of  the  letter  box  design  for 
residential  flat  buildings  and  mixed 
use  development  a  special  container 
shall be provided for the placement of 
advertising  and  newspaper  materials. 
Such container shall be located behind 
the  building  line  and  designed  to  be 
part of the letter box arrangement for 
the development. 

b)  The 

newspaper/advertisement 
container shall be regularly emptied by 
the manager/caretaker of the building.

5.4
General 

Requirements 

for Residential 

Flat Buildings 

&

 Mixed Use 

Development 

(Zones R4,B3 

& B4) 

########Page167

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)5.5
Residential 

Flat 

Buildings

(Zone R4 ) 

5.5  Residential Flat Buildings (Zone R4)

This section sets out controls relating to residential flat buildings in areas zoned R4.

Objectives:

 ■ Encourage  high  quality,  high-density  residential  flat  development  which  is 
innovative and responsive to the site’s environmental characteristics and setting.

 ■ Ensure a high level of amenity for the occupants of residential flat buildings and 

adjoining occupants of residential flat buildings.

5.5.1 Site  Requirements for Residential 
Flat Buildings

Design Requirements 

a)  Residential  flat  buildings  shall  only  be 
permitted  on  an  allotment  having  a 
minimum width of 30 metres measured 
at the front property boundary.

b)  Sites  shall  be  amalgamated  where 
required,  to  achieve  the  minimum  site 
area  and  width  requirement  applicable 
to the proposed development. 

c)  Development  shall  not  result  in  an 
“isolated  allotment”  adjoining 
the 
development site. 

d)  For  the  purpose  of  Clause    5.5.1c) 
above,  an  “isolated  allotment”  is  an 
allotment  that  has  a  site  area  of  less 
than 1200 square metres and/or a width 
at  the  front  property  boundary  of  less 
than  30  metres  that  has  no  immediate 
potential  for  amalgamation  with  any 
other  adjoining  allotments  to  achieve 
a  minimum  site  area  of  1200  square 
metres and a width at the front property 
boundary of 30 metres.

Note:

Under  the  CLEP  (Clause  7.9) 
Residential  flat  buildings  within 
zones  B3  and  B4  are  only 
permissible as part of a mixed use 
development  and  are  not  to  be 
located on ground floor. 

Figure 5.5.1 – Entry to residential flat 
building.

5.5.2 Building Setbacks for Residential  
Flat Buildings

Note: 

Refer to Section 4.1C of the CLEP 
for  the  minimum  qualifying  site 
area for residential flat buildings.

Design Requirements 

a)  Residential flat buildings shall be setback 

a minimum of:

i)  5.5 metres from any street boundary; 

and

ii)  6 metres from any other boundary.

########Page168

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)5.5.3  General  Requirements 
Residential Flat Buildings 

for  

Design Requirements

a)  A  minimum  of  5%  of  the  total  number 
of  dwellings  within  a  residential  flat 
building shall be one (1) bedroom flat(s) 
or a studio(s).

b)  A minimum of 10% of the total number 
of  dwellings  within  a  residential  flat 
building shall be adaptable dwelling(s).

c)  The  floor  space  occupied  by  each 
residential  flat 

dwelling  within  a 
building shall not be less than:

i)  35sqm in the case of a studio flat;

ii)  50sqm in case of a 1 bedroom flat;

iii) 70sqm in case of a 2 bedroom flat; 

iv)  90sqm in case of a 3 bedroom flat or 

more. 

d)  For the purpose of clause 5.5.3 c), the 
floor space includes only one bathroom. 
Additional bathrooms shall increase the 
minimum  floor  space  of  each  dwelling 
by 5sqm for each additional bathroom.

e)  A fourth bedroom and further additional 
bedrooms  shall  increase  the  minimum 
internal  area  by  12sqm  for  each 
additional bedroom. 

f)  A  maximum  of  8  dwellings  shall  be  
accessible  from  a  common  lobby  area 
or corridor on each level of a residential 
flat building. 

g)  All  residential  flat  buildings  shall 
contain  at  least  one  (1)  lift  for  access 
from  the  basement  to  the  upper  most 
storey that provide access to a dwelling 
space.  Further, the lift(s) shall extend 
to provide access to the roof space if the 
roof is intended for use by occupants of 
the building as a roof terrace.

h)  A maximum of fifty (50) dwellings shall 
be    accessible  from  a  single  common 
lift.

Note: 
Clause  7.13  Design  Excellence  of 
the  CLEP  applies  to  areas  zoned 
R3,  R4,  B2,  B3  and  B4  and  aims 
to deliver the highest standard of 
architectural and urban design, as 
part of the built environment.  

5.5
Residential 

Flat 

Buildings 

(Zone R4 )

########Page169

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)5.5
Residential 

Flat 

Buildings 

(Zone R4 )

i)  Access  to  lifts  shall  be  direct  and  well 

illuminated.

j)  A minimum of 25% of the  required open 
space  area,  or  15%  of  the  total  site 
area, whichever is the greater, shall be 
available for deep soil planting.

k)  Each  flat  shall  be  provided  with  an 
‘incidentals’  storage 
facility  within 
the  unit  and/or  the  basement,  which 
shall  be  available  for  personal  use  of 
the  occupants  of  each  dwelling,  and 
designed  and  constructed  of  materials 
to  Council’s  satisfaction.  Such  storage 
facility shall have a storage capacity of 
not less than the following:

i)  4 cubic metres in the case of a studio 

flat;

ii)  6 cubic metres  in case of a 1 bedroom 

flat;

iii) 8 cubic metres in case of a 2 bedroom 

flat;and

iv)  10  cubic  metres  in  case  of  a  3 

bedroom flat or more.

Note:  A  suspended  storage  facility  within 
the  basement  may  be  included  as  part  of, 
or  the  whole  of,  the  required  incidentals 
storage facility. 

j)  The  incidentals  storage  facility  shall 
l)
not  be  created  as  a  separate  (strata) 
allotment to the unit it services.

5.5.4 Car Parking and Access 

Design Requirements

a)  All car parking and access for vehicles, 
including  disabled  access  spaces,  shall 
be  in  accordance  with  AS2890  parts  1 
and 2 (as amended), except as otherwise 
specified in the Plan.

b)  The minimum dimensions of any parking 
space  shall  be  2.5  x  5.5  metres.  The 
minimum width of any car parking space 
shall  be  increased  by  300mm  for  each 
side that adjoins a vertical edge.

c)  Driveways  shall  be  located  a  minimum 
distance  of  6  metres  from  the  splay  of 

Figure  5.5.2  The  provision  of  20% 
of  the  site  for  deep  soil  planting 
can  aid  the  aesthetics  of  the 
development.

Figure  5.5.3 
–  Example  of  an 
unobtrusive  basement  parking  access 
point. 

m
6

b
r
e
K

Tangent Point

Kerb

6 m

t

e
e
r
t

S

Boundary

6 m

Boundary

6 m

Figure  5.5.4  –  Restricted  locations  of 
driveways  entry  as  shown    heavy  edged 
lines.

########Page170

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
any  unsignalled  intersection  (refer  to 
Figure 5.5.4).

Note: In circumstances where an intersection 
is controlled by lights, a roundabout or the 
like,  applicants  are  requested  to  contact 
Council for specific requirements.

d)  For  development 

incorporating  20 
or  more  dwellings,  the  DA  shall  be 
accompanied  by  a  ‘Traffic 
Impact 
Assessment Report’.

Note:  For  requirements  relating  to  the 
preparation of a ‘Traffic Impact Assessment 
Report’ refer to Appendix 12.

e)  Where  existing,  vehicular  entry  points 
shall  be  located  at  the  rear  or  side 
streets. 

f)  Development  containing  3  or  more 
storeys  shall  provide  all  required  car 
parking at basement level.

g)  Parking  provided  at  ground  level  shall 
be  appropriately  screened  from  public 
view. 

Note: For additional technical specifications 
relating to the location gradient, driveway 
widths    and  basement  car  park  refer  to 
Council’s  Engineering  Design  Guidelines 
for  Development  available  from  Council’s 
website at www.campbelltown.nsw.gov.au. 

h)  Each dwelling shall be provided with a 
minimum of one car parking space, and:

i)  an  additional  car  parking  space  for 
every  4  dwellings  (or  part  thereof); 
and

ii)  an  additional  visitor  car  parking 
space for every 10 dwellings (or part 
thereof).

i)  No required car parking space shall be 

in a stacked configuration.

j)  Each development shall make provision 
for  bicycle  storage  at  a  rate  of  1 
space  per  5  dwellings  within  common 
property.

Figure 5.5.5 Example of balconies 
in a residential flat building.

5.5
Residential 

Flat 

Buildings 

(Zone R4 )

########Page171

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)5.5
Residential 

Flat 

Buildings 

(Zone R4 )

5.5.5 Solar Access 

a)  Buildings shall be orientated and sited to 
maximise  northern  sunlight  to  internal 
living and open spaces.

b)  A  minimum  20sqm  area  of  the  required 
private  open  space  on  adjoining  land, 
(having  a  minimum  width  of  3  metres), 
shall receive three (3) hours of continuous 
direct solar access on  21 June, between 
9.00am and 3.00pm, measured at ground 
level.

c)  Living  rooms  and  private  open  spaces 
of  at  least  70%  of  dwellings  within  a 
residential  flat  building  shall  receive 
a  minimum  of  2  hours  direct  sunlight 
between  9:00am  and  3:00pm  at  mid 
winter.

d)  Council  expects  that  with  innovative 
and  thoughtful  design,  all  dwellings 
should  receive  some  direct  sunlight, 
however,  when  it  can  be  shown  that 
providing  sunlight  to  every  dwelling 
is  unachievable,  Council  may  allow  a 
design solution that result in up to 15% of 
the dwelling receiving no direct sunlight 
between  9:00am  and  3:00pm  at  mid 
winter.

5.5.6 Balconies and Ground Level   
Courtyards

Design Requirements

a)  Dwellings shall be provided with a private 

courtyard and/or balcony. 

b)  Courtyards/balconies shall be:

i)  not less than 8sqm in area and have a 

minimum depth of 2 metres;

ii)  clearly  defined  and  screened      for 

private use;

iii) oriented to achieve comfortable year 

round use; and

iv)   accessible from a main living area of 

the flat.

########Page172

Figure 5.5.6 - Example of a residential 
flat building provided with communal 
recreation facilities (in the form of a 
lap pool).

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Figure  5.5.7 
landcaping 
treatment 
residential flat building.

–  Example  of 
a 

in 

5.5.7 Privacy

Design Requirements

a)  Ground  level  dwellings  incorporating 
a  courtyard  shall  be  provided  with  a 
privacy screen.

b)  No  window  of  a  habitable  room  or 
balcony shall be directly face a window 
of  another  habitable  room,  balcony  or 
private  courtyard  of  another  dwelling 
located within 9 metres of the proposed 
window or balcony.

c)  Notwithstanding 5.5.7(b) a window of a 
habitable room may be permitted only 
where it:

i)  is  offset  by  2  metres  to  limit  views 

between windows, or

ii)  has  a  sill  height  1.7  metres  above 

the floor level; or

iii) is  splayed  to  avoid  direct  views 

between windows; or

iv)  has a fixed translucent glazing in any 
part of the window within 1.7 metres 
of the floor level; or

v)  is otherwise appropriately screened.

d)  Notwithstanding 5.5.7(b), a balcony will 
be  considered  where  the  private  open 
space area of any adjacent dwelling is 
screened from view.

5.5.8 Communal Recreation Facilities

Design Requirements

a)  Each  residential  flat  building  shall  be 
provided  with  communal  recreation 
facilities for the use of all the occupants 
of the building comprising:

i)  a  recreation  room  with  a  minimum 
area of a 50sqm per 50 dwellings (or 
part thereof); and

ii)  a  bbq/outdoor  dining  area  with 
a  minimum  area  of  50sqm  per  50 
dwellings (or part thereof).

b)  Communal  recreation  facilities  shall 

5.5
Residential 

Flat 

Buildings

(Zone R4 ) 

########Page173

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)5.5
Residential 

Flat 

Buildings

(Zone R4 ) 

not  be  located  within  the  primary  or 
secondary street boundary setback. 

c)  All  communal  recreational  facilities 
shall  be  provided  on  the  same  land  as 
the residential flat building.

d)  Communal open space provided on the 
roof of a building shall not be included 
as part of the required communal open 
space.

e)  All 

required 

communal 

and 
recreational  facilities  are  required  to 
be  constructed  prior  to  the  issue  of 
an  interim    occupation  certificate  for 
any  residential  units  within  a  staged 
development.

########Page174

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)5.6 Mixed Use Development (Zones B3 & B4) 

This section sets out controls relating to mixed use development in areas zoned B3 & B4.

Objectives:

 ■ To  encourage  high  quality,  mixed-use  development,  which  is  innovative  and 

responsive to the site’s environmental characteristics and setting.

 ■ To ensure a high level of amenity for the occupants of mixed-use development, 

and adjoining occupants of residential buildings.

5.6
Mixed Use

Development

(Zones B3 & 

B4) 

5.6.1  General  Requirements 
for    
Mixed-use Development in areas zoned 
B3 & B4 

Design Requirements

a)  The 

shall  be 

requirements 

for  mixed-use 
consistent 
development 
with  the  requirements  for  residential 
flat  buildings  (Section  5.5  except  as 
specified in this section).

b)  Mixed-use  developments  on  areas 
zoned B3 and B4 shall only be occupied 
level  by  retail  and/or 
at  ground 
commercial office or like uses, subject 
to  land  use  permissibility  under  the 
CLEP;

c)  No ground floor level on areas zoned B3 
& B4 shall be occupied by a residential 
use. 

to 

accommodate 

d)  Any  mixed-use  buildings  that  are 
designed 
the 
preparation of food from a commercial 
shall  provide  ventilation 
tenancy, 
facilities  to  ensure  that  no  odour  is 
emitted  in  a  manner  that  adversely 
impacts  upon  any  residents  or  other 
occupants using the building.      

Site 

5.6.2 
Building  Envelope 
Development in areas zoned B3 & B4 

and 
  for  Mixed-use          

requirements 

Design Requirements

a)  Council  may  consider  a  mixed-use 
development on land with an area less 
than  1,200  square  metres  and  a  width 

Note: 
For the purposes of this part, mixed 
use  development  is  development 
which  includes  residential  uses 
(including shop top housing where 
relevant)  in  conjunction  with  one 
or  more  uses  such  as,  business 
premises, 
offices, 
retail  shops,  community  facilities 
and medical centres.

commercial 

Note:

Refer  to  Clause  7.9  Mixed  Use 
Development in Zone B3 and Zone 
B4  under  the  CLEP  for  additional 
development standards for mixed 
use development.

Note: 
Clause  7.13  Design  Excellence  of 
the  CLEP  applies  to  areas  zoned 
R3,  R4,  B2,  B3  and  B4  and  aims 
to deliver the highest standard of 
architectural and urban design, as 
part of the built environment.  

########Page175

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)5.6
Mixed Use

Development

less than 30 metres.

b)  Mixed  use  buildings  shall  be  setback  a 

minimum of:

i)  zero  metres 
boundary; and

from  any 

street 

(Zones B3 & 

B4)

ii)  6  metres  from  any  other  boundary 
for any residential component of the 
building. 

5.6.3  Car Parking  and Access in  areas 
zoned B3 & B4 

Design Requirements

a) 

In  addition  to  residential  car  parking 
rates (section 5.5.4), the development 
shall provide one (1) car parking space 
per  25sqm  of  leasable  floor  space  at 
ground  level  and  one  (1)  car  parking 
space per 35sqm of floor space at upper 
levels for all commercial/retail parts of 
the building.

b)  Pedestrian 

access 

residential 
flats  shall  be  separated  from  the 
commercial/retail uses.

to 

c)  The 

shall 

development 

provide 
adequate space for the on-site parking, 
loading  and  unloading  of  all  delivery/
service  vehicles  as  detailed  in  Part 
6.4.2 of this Plan. 

5.6.4 Roof Terraces

Design Requirements

a)  Consideration  will  only  be  given  to 
the  provision  of  a  roof  top  terrace  as 
part of communal open space, subject 
to  appropriate  landscaping  treatment 
and  recreation  facilities  provided;  and 
satisfying  the  respective  provisions  of 
the RFDC. 

5.6.5  Mixed-use  Development  and        
Waste Management

Design Requirements

a)  Self  contained  and 

lockable  areas 
shall  be  provided  for  commercial  and 

########Page176

Figure  5.6.1  –  Example  of  mixed-use 
development.

Figure  5.6.2  –  Example  of  vehicle 
access  point 
for  a  mixed-use 
development.

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)residential waste.

b)  Areas  for  commercial  and  residential 

waste shall be kept separate. 

5.6
Mixed Use

Development

(Zones B3 & 

B4)

########Page177

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)5.6
Mixed Use

Development

(Zones RU5, 
B1& B2)

5.7 Mixed Use Development (Zones RU5, B1 & B2) 

This section applies to mixed use development in areas zoned RU5, B1 and B2. 

Objective: 

 ■ Encourage  high  quality,  mixed-use  development  within  the 

local  and 
neighbourhood  centres,  which  is  innovative  and  responsive  to  the  site’s 
environmental characteristics and setting.

 ■ Encourage  quality  designed  mixed  use  development  that  makes  a  positive 

contribution to the streetscape and the locality.

 ■ To ensure a high level of amenity for the occupants of mixed-use development, 

and adjoining occupants of dwellings.

5.7.1  General  Requirements  (areas 
zoned RU5,  B1 and B2

Design Requirements

a)  Mixed-use  developments  shall  only 
be  occupied  at  ground  level  by  retail 
and/or  commercial  office  or  like  uses, 
subject to land use permissibility under 
the CLEP;

b)  Any  mixed-use  development 

that 
are  designed  to  accommodate  the 
preparation of food from a commercial 
shall  provide  ventilation 
tenancy, 
facilities  to  ensure  that  no  odour  is 
emitted  in  a  manner  that  adversely 
impacts  upon  any  residents  or  other 
occupants using the building. 

c)  Entries to the residential dwellings shall 
be separate to  commercial entries.

d)  Each  residential  dwelling  within  a 
mixed  use  development  shall  have    an 
identifiable address.

e)  Advertising  shall  not  be  permitted    on 
any part of the residential dwellings. 

f)  Balconies for residential dwellings  shall 
address  the  street  and  any  adjacent 
open space.

g)  Exterior  lighting  should  be  of  low 
intensity  and  shielded  so  that  light 
does  not  spill  out  onto  the  residential 

Note: 
For the purposes of this part, mixed 
use  development  is  development 
which  includes  residential  uses 
(including shop top housing where 
relevant)  in  conjunction  with  one 
or  more  uses  such  as,  business 
premises, 
commercial  offices, 
retail  shops,  community  facilities 
and  medical  centres;  subject  to 
land  use  permissibility  under  the 
CLEP.

Note:
Shop  top  housing  means  one  or 
more  dwellings 
located  above 
ground  floor  retail  premises  or 
business premises.

Note: 
Clause  7.13  Design  Excellence  of 
the  CLEP  applies  to  areas  zoned 
R3,  R4,  B2,  B3  and  B4  and  aims 
to deliver the highest standard of 
architectural and urban design, as 
part of the built environment.  

########Page178

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)5.7
Mixed Use

Development

(Zones RU5, 

B1 & B2)

Figure  5.7.1  –  Example  of  mixed-use 
development.

dwellings  or  project  above 
horizontal plane.

the 

h)  Lighting  shall  be  static  and  shall  not 
strobe, flash, oscillate, be of unusually 
high 
intensity  of  brightness,  or 
uncovered.

i)  Stairs  providing  access  to  residential 

dwellings shall be enclosed.

j)  Building  facades  shall  be  articulated 

and blank walls shall be avoided.

5.7.2  Solar Access  (areas  zoned  RU5, 
B1 and B2)

Design Requirements

a)  Buildings  shall  be  orientated  and 
sited  to  maximise  northern  sunlight  to 
internal living and open spaces.

b)  A minimum 20sqm area of the required 
private  open 
space  on  adjoining 
land,  (having  a  minimum  width  of  3 
metres),  shall  receive  three  (3)  hours 
of continuous direct solar access on  21 
June,  between  9.00am  and  3.00pm, 
measured at ground level.

5.7.3  Setbacks  (areas  zoned  RU5,  B1 
and B2)

Design Requirements

a)  Mixed use  development shall be setback 

a minimum of:

i)  zero metres from the primary street 

boundary; 

ii)  3  metres  from  the  secondary  street 

boundary;

iii) 3  metres  from  any  side  boundary 
residential 

where 
properties or public open space;

adjoins 

it 

iv)  0.9 metres from the side boundary in 

any other case;

v)  6  metres  from  the  rear  boundary 
residential 

where 
properties or public open space;

adjoins 

it 

vi)   3 metres  from the rear boundary in 

########Page179

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)5.7
Mixed Use

Development

(Zones RU5, 

B1 & B2)

any other case.

b)  Despite  clause  5.7.3  a)  iv)  above, 
mixed  use  development 
shall  be 
permitted  to  be  built  on  the  side 
boundary where in Council’s opinion the 
proposed  development  is  considered  
a 
adjacent 
development  within  the  same  section 
of the streetscape.

continuation 

an 

of 

c)  Despite clause 5.7.3 a) vi), reduced rear 
setbacks shall be considered on merits.

5.7.4  Car  Parking  and  Access  (areas 
zoned RU5, B1 and B2)

Design Requirements

a)  Each  residential  dwelling  shall  be 
provided  with  a  minimum  of  one  car 
parking space.

b)  Private  car  parking  for  the  residential 
component of a mixed use development/
shop  top  housing  shall  be  clearly 
identified  and  separated  from  regular 
business/retail car parking. 

c) 

In  addition  to  the  required  residential 
car  parking  rates  (section  5.7.4  a) 
above,  the  development  shall  provide 
one (1) car parking space per 25sqm of 
leasable floor space at ground level and 
one  (1)  car  parking  space  per  35sqm 
of  floor  space  at  upper  levels  for  all 
commercial/retail parts of the building.

d)  Pedestrian 

access 

residential 
dwellings  shall  be  separated  from  the 
commercial/retail uses.

to 

e)  The 

shall 

development 

provide 
adequate space for the on-site parking, 
loading  and  unloading  of  all  delivery/
service  vehicles  as  detailed  in  Part 
6.5.2 of this Plan.

5.7.5 Balconies and Ground Level   
Courtyards

Design Requirements

a)  Dwellings  shall  be  provided  with  a 
private courtyard and/or balcony. 

########Page180

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)b)  Courtyards/balconies shall be:

i)  not less than 8sqm in area and have 

a minimum depth of 2 metres;

ii)  clearly  defined  and  screened  for 
private  use  and  secured  so  as  not 
to  impact  on  privacy  of  adjoining 
residential  properties  or  properties 
that can be directly viewed from the 
balcony. 

iii)  accessible from a main living area of 

the dwelling.

5.7.6  Mixed-use  Development  and        
Waste Management (areas zoned RU5, 
B1 and B2)

Design Requirements

a)  In addition to the development controls 
under Section 5.4.8 Waste Management 
of this part, self contained and lockable 
areas shall be provided for commercial 
and residential waste.

b)  Areas  for  commercial  and  residential 

waste shall be kept separate. 

5.7.7  Access for People with Disabilities

Design Requirements

a)  Mixed  use  development  shall  comply 
with the minimum access requirements 
contained within  the BCA , the Disability 
to  Premises  —  Buildings) 
(Access 
Standards 2010 and Australian Standard 
1428  –  Design  for  Access  and  Mobility 
(as amended).

5.7
Mixed Use

Development

(Zones RU5, 

B1 & B2)

########Page181

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)This  page  is  intentionally  left 
blank. 

########Page182

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
Part 6 
Commercial 
Development

6.1

Application

6.1 Application
Parts 6  sets out the following:

 – Desired future character for neighbourhood and local centres;

 – Desired Future Character for areas zoned B5; 

 – General requirements for commercial development;

 – Development controls for commercial subdivision;

 – Development controls for neighbourhood shops in areas zoned R3 and R4;

 – Development control for outdoor dining; and

 – Development control for parenting facilities. 

Zone Acronyms                                   

  RU5 Village: RU5    

R3 Medium Density Residential: R3

R4 High Density Residential: R4        

B5 Business Development: B5  

B1 Neighbourhood Centre: B1

B2 Local Centre: B2

B3 Commercial Core: B3 

B4 Mixed Use: B4

B5 Business Development: B5            

Note: 

For  desired  Future  Character  for  areas 
zoned  B3  and  B4  Refer  to  Part  5  Mixed 
Use Development.                       

Note: Outdoor Dining Permits

A  current  outdoor  dining  permit  issued 
by  the  Council  under  its  Street  Trading 
Policy (adopted by Council on 9 December 
2014)  is  required  for  any  outdoor  dining 
activities. An  outdoor  dining  permit  can 
only  be  issued  where  an  existing  and 
active development consent is in place for 
the lawful use of the principal tenancy. 

########Page184

Note:  For  the  purpose  of  this  part, 
commercial  development means any of 
the following: 

•  commercial premises;

•  wholesale suppliers;

• 

• 

• 

registered clubs;

function centres;

service station;

•  amusement centre;

•  entertainment facility;

•  veterinary hospital;

•  health services facility; 

• 

tourists 
accommodation;

and 

•  amusement centre;

•  community facilities

•  entertainment facilities;

visitors 

• 

• 

storage premises

recreations 
and

facilities 

(indoor); 

•  any  other 

commercial 

type 
development  that  in  the  opinion 
of Council Part 6 applies. 

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)The Structure of Part 6
Commercial Development  

6.1
Application  

5.2
  Desired 
Future Character 
(Neighbourhood 
and Local 
Centres)

5.3
  Desired 
Future Character 
for areas zoned 
B5

5.4 
General
Requirements 
for 
Commercial 
Development 

5.5 
Neighbourhood 
shops 

5.6 
Outdoor Dining

5.7 
Parenting 
Facilities 

 B1 & B2

B5

R3 & R4, 

########Page185

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015                                                                                        Effective:11/03/16 
 
6.2

6.2 Desired Future Character for neighbourhood and local centres (Areas 
Zoned B1 & B2 ) 

Desired Future 
Character

Areas Zoned 
B1&B2

Neighbourhood and local centres within the Campbelltown LGA shall be characterised by:

•  Buildings that are well designed with articulated facade treatments;

• 

• 

Shops,  restaurants,  cafés  and  businesses  with  active  street  frontages  and  land 
uses that service the  day to day needs of nearby residents;

Landscaping that soften the car parking areas and enhance the streetscape;

•  Uniform awnings that enhance the visual appearance of the buildings and provide 

weather protection for the users;

•  Attractive  buildings  that  have  been  harmoniously  designed  to  complement 
each  other  and  contribute  to  the  overall  architectural  design  quality  of  the 
neighbourhood and local centres.

Note:  Table  6.2.1  provides  a  list  of  the  local  and  neighbourhoods  centres  within  the 
Campbelltown LGA. 

Figure 6.2.1 -  A photo of Eagle Vale Local Centre 

Figure 6.2.2 -  An example of a mixed use development within a neighbourhood centre 
with an active street frontage.

########Page186

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Table 6.2.1 Lists of Neighbourhood Centres within Campbelltown LGA 

Glen  Alpine 
Centre

Kearns

Raby

Shopping 

Heritage Way, Glen Alpine  

Kearns Avenue, Kearns  

Thunderbolt Drive, Raby  

Raby Shopping Centre

Raby Shopping Centre, 2 Hurricane Drive, Raby  

6.2

Desired Future 
Character

Areas Zoned 
B1&B2

Andrews 

St 
Centre

Minto

Minto

Shopping 

 Ballantrae Drive, St Andrews   

Minto Road, Minto

Benham Road, Minto  

Ingleburn 

Lagonda Drive, Ingleburn

Ruse  Village 
Centre, 

Blairmount 

Blair Athol

Shopping 

Junction Road, Ruse

Clydesdale Drive, Blairmount 

The Kraal Drive, Blair Athol

Campbelltown 

Cnr Chamberlain Street & Lindesay Street  Campbelltown

Campbelltown (1)

Waminda Avenue, Campbelltown

Campbelltown (2)  

Waminda Avenue, Campbelltown

Bradbury 

Ambarvale 
Centre

Hoddle Avenue Shopping Centre 3 Hoddle Avenue, Bradbury 

Shopping 

45 Woodhouse Drive, Ambarvale 

Airds Shopping Centre

Riverside Drive, Airds

Bradbury Shopping Centre The Parkway, Bradbury

St Helens Park

Kellerman Drive, St Helens Park

St Helens Park

Woodland Road, St Helens Park

Rosemeadow 
Centre

Shopping 

Thomas Rose Drive, Rosemeadow 

Macquarie Fields

 Saywell Road, Macquarie Fields 

Macquarie 
Neighbourhood

Fields 

 Evelyn Street, Macquarie Fields

Woodbine  Neighbourhood 
Centre

North Steyne Road, Woodbine 

Leumeah 

Leumeah

Bradfield Street, Leumeah 

54 Parkhill Avenue, Leumeah

########Page187

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/166.2

Desired Future 
Character

Areas Zoned 
B1&B2

Table 6.2.2 Lists of Local Centres within Campbelltown LGA 

Eagle Vale

Minto

Leumeah 

Eagle Vale Centre, Emerald Drive, 

Minto Marketplace, Brookfield Road, Minto

O’Sullivan Road, Leumeah  

Macquarie Fields

Glenquarie Shopping Centre, 60 Harold Street, Macquarie 
Fields 

########Page188

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)6.3 Desired Future Character for (Areas Zoned B5 ) 

The areas zoned  B5 shall be characterised by:

•  well designed and articulated facade treatments addressing the primary streets. 

•  buildings with active street level frontages.

• 

• 

• 

• 

large  expanses  of  visible/assessable  creeper  with  adequate  access  and  g 
manoeuvring provisions.

easily accessible loading dock facilities that are designed to operate separately 
to any public/retail function.

landscaping that softens car parking areas and enhances the streetscape. 

street trees. 

6.3

Desired Future 
Character

Areas Zoned 
B5

Figure  6.3.1  -  Examples  of  streetscapes  within  existing  areas  zoned  B5  within  
Campbelltown. 

########Page189

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/166.4

General 
Requirements 
for 
Commercial 
Development

6.4.1
Building Form 
and 
Character

6.4 General Requirements for Commercial Development 

This Section provides general development controls for commercial development within 
Campbelltown LGA.

6.4.1  Building Form and Character  

Objectives: 

 ■ Ensure that the massing and scale of new development are complementary to 

the desired future character of business centres. 

 ■ Ensure that buildings are designed to enhance the existing and future desired 
built form by encouraging innovative and quality designs that fit harmoniously 
with their surroundings, and the public domain.

 ■ Ensure  that  car  parking  areas  and  entries  to  commercial  development  are 
appropriately sited, designed and constructed so that they do not detract from 
the appearance of the development or the streetscape.

 ■ Ensure that advertising is undertaken in a manner that reduces clutter and does 

not impact on the overall visual quality  of the buildings.

Design Requirements 

a)  All  building  facades,  including  rear  and 
side  elevations  visible  from  a        public 
place  or  adjacent  to  residential  areas, 
shall  be  architecturally  treated  to 
enhance the quality of the streetscape.

b)  Large  buildings  shall  incorporate  the 
following elements to assist in achieving 
a high quality architectural outcome:

Note: 

Numerical Development Standards 
for building  heights  and  minimum 
subdivision    are  provided  under 
the CLEP.   

regular 

intervals, 

i)  the  provision  of  vertical  and/or 
horizontal offsets in the wall surfaces 
at 
including 
columns,  projections,  and  recesses; 
variation  to  the  height  of  the 
building so that the building appears 
to  be  divided  into  distinct  massing 
elements;

ii)  articulation  of  the  different  parts  of 
a  building’s  facade  by  use  of  colour, 
arrangement  of  facade  elements, 
or  by  varying  the  types  of  materials 
used; and

iii) maximising  the  interior  and  exterior 

########Page190

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)6.4

General 
Requirements
for 
Commercial 
Development

6.4.1
Building Form 
and 
Character

Figure 6.4.1.1 An example of a well 
articulated commercial building.

interactions at the ground level.

c)  The main entry to the building shall be 
easily identifiable from the street and 
directly accessible through the front of 
the building.

d)  Large expansive blank walls on ground 
floor levels or side and rear boundaries 
shall not be permitted unless abutting 
a building on an adjoining allotment.

e)  Roof  mounted  plant 

rooms,  air 
conditioning  units  and  other  services 
and  equipment  shall  be  effectively 
screened  from  view  using  integrated 
structures  and  architectural 
roof 
elements.

f)  Solid opaque roller doors/shutters over 
windows  and  entry  doors  shall  not  be 
permitted  on  any  building  that  has 
frontages to a street or a public place.

g)  Buildings  shall  not  incorporate  highly 

reflective glass.

h)  A 

schedule  of  proposed  colours, 
materials and finishes shall accompany 
all  development  applications  for  new 
buildings.

i)  Development  on  corner  sites  shall 
incorporate  splays,  curves,  building 
entries 
architectural 
other 
elements  to  reinforce  the  corner  as  a 
land mark feature of the street.

and 

j)  Except in the case of an outdoor cafe, 
the  design  of  the  development  shall 
not provide for outdoor display and/or 
storage.

k)  Commercial  development  shall  be 
designed  to  address  both  primary  and 
secondary street setbacks. 

l) 

shall 

development 

Infill 
respect 
and  maintain  consistency  with  the 
established 
existing 
setbacks 
shopfronts.

of 

########Page191

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16Figure 6.4.1.2 An example of a well 
articulated commercial building.

6.4

General 
Requirements
for 
Commercial 
Development 

6.4.1
Building Form 
and 
Character

6.4.1.1 Commercial Development Floor 
Area

Design Requirements:

a)  The  maximum  gross  floor  area  of  any 
single retail premises within any business 
in  areas  zoned  B1  ,B2  and  B5  shall  not 
exceed  500  square  metres  unless  the 
proposal  has  been  supported  by  an 
economic  impact  assessment,  prepared 
by  a  suitably  qualified  person.  In  this 
regard, the economic impact assessment 
shall  demonstrate  that  the  economic 
impacts  of  the  proposed  development 
on  the  retail  hierarchy  of  affected 
business  areas  in  the  Campbelltown 
Local Government Area are acceptable, 
and shall include an assessment of:

i)   the  trade  area  of  the  proposed 

development;

ii)   market demand within the trade area 

to justify the proposal; and

iii)  economic  impacts  on  comparative 

retail outlets in the trade area.

b)  Despite  Clause  6.4.1.1  a)  bulky  goods 

premises shall:

i)   have  a  minimum  gross  floor  area  of 

200 square metres; and

ii)   be permitted to have a  gross 

floor 
area greater than 500 square metres.

6.4.1.2 Building Setbacks

Design Requirements:

a)  All  commercial  development    outside 
areas zoned B3 and B4 shall be setback 
from property boundaries in accordance 
with this section.

b)  Development shall be setback a minimum 

of :

i)  30 metres to: 

 – the main southern railway corridor, 

ii)  30 metres to: 

########Page192

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) – the South Western Freeway corridor, 

 – Ben Lomond Road between Pembroke 
Road and the Main Southern Railway 
Corridor,

 – Campbelltown Road,

 – Henderson Road, 

 – Pembroke Road,

 – Rose Payten Drive; and 

 – Williamson Road.

iii) 15 metres to:

 – Airds Road,

 – Badgally Road,

 – Ben 

Road 

Lomond 

between 
Campbelltown  Road  and  the  Main 
Southern Railway Corridor,

 – Blaxland   Road between

Campbelltown  Road  and  Rose 
Street,

 – the  south  eastern  side  of  Blaxland 
Road  between  Rose  Street  and  Lot 
5 DP 538258,

 – Blaxland  Road  between  Lot  5  DP 

538258 and Narellan Road,

 – Devon Road, 

 – Grange Road,

 – Plough 

Inn 

Road 

between 
Campbelltown  Road,  and  Hollylea 
Road,

 – Sussex Street and

 – Swaffham Road.

iv)  10  metres  from  any  other  primary 

street frontage.

exclusive  of  any  required  road 
widening.

c)  Despite  Clause  6.4.2.1.  b)  i)    Council 
may  consider  a  reduction  of  the  rear 
setback  from  the  southern  railway 
corridor  from  30  metres  to  5  metres 

6.4

General 
Requirements
for 
Commercial 
Development 

6.4.1
Building Form 
and 
Character

########Page193

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16 
6.4

providing that:  

General 
Requirements
for 
Commercial 
Development 

6.4.1
Building Form 
and 
Character

i)  a  vegetated  screen/landscape 
area  of  a  minimum  width  of 
5  metres  is  constructed  along 
the  full  width  of  the  property 
between  the  railway  corridor  
and the buildings;

ii)  the vegetated  area is free of any 
easements    or  site  constraints 
(refer to Figure 6.4.1.3); 

iii) the  vegetated  area  is  densely 
landscaped with trees and plants 
selected from the Campbelltown 
Native 
Guide, 
Gardening 
available from Council’s website 
at  www.campbelltown.nsw.gov.
au;

iv)  Council 

is  satisfied  that  the 
proposed vegetation is sufficient 
to screen the buildings from the 
southern railway corridor.

Note:  All  reduced  setback  proposals 
from  the  railway  corridor  shall  be 
subject to the approval of the relevant 
public authorities.

P roperty B oundary

P ropos ed  B uilding

S outhern R ailway Line B oundary 

P roperty B oundary

P ropos ed  B uilding

E as ement 

6.4.1.3 Fencing

S outhern R ailway Line B oundary 

m
0

.

5

i

n
m

m
0

.

5

i

n
m

m
0

.

5
n
a
h
t

s
s
e

l

Figure  6.4.1.3  Illustration  of  the  reduced 
set  backs  requirements  from  the  southern 
railway corridor

a)  Commercial  fencing  shall  be  a 
maximum 2.4 metres in height.

b)  The  use  of  sheet  metal  fencing  is 

not  permitted.

c)  Fencing  on  corner  allotments  shall 
not  obstruct  the  sight  distance 
of  traffic  entering  or  within  an 
intersection or roundabout. 

d)  Fencing  shall  not  obstruct  power, 
water,  sewer,  gas  or  telephone 
services, 
systems, 
drainage 
(including  overland  flow  paths)  or 
any easements or rights of way.

e)  Details 

for 

fencing 

shall  be 
submitted  with  the  development 
application.

########Page194

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
 
 
 
6.4.2 Car Parking and Access 

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure that sufficient car parking is accommodated on site to meet the traffic 

demand generated by the development.

 ■ Ensure that the layout of car parking spaces is safe, functional and maintains the 

free flow of traffic into and out of the site.

 ■ Minimise parking demand through integration of land use and transport.

 ■ Ensure consistency with desired future character of the area.

6.4

General 
Requirements 

6.4.2
Car Parking 
and Access

6.4.2.1 General Requirements 

Design Requirements

a)  Off street parking and loading shall be 
designed in accordance with Australian 
Standards  2890.1  and  2  (as  amended), 
except  as  otherwise  provided  by  this 
Plan.

b)  The  minimum  car  parking  rates  shall 
be  provided  in  accordance  with  Table 
6.4.2.1.  If  in  the  opinion  of  Council, 
additional  car  parking  spaces  are 
required  due  to  the  constraints  of 
the  site  and  or  the  nature  of  the  use, 
additional  car  parking  spaces  shall  be 
provided as part of the development.

c)  All car parking spaces that are required 
under  clause  6.4.2.1  b)  shall  not  be 
locked  off,  obstructed,  reserved  or 
separately  allocated  to  any  individual 
use at any time. 

d)  Commercial  development 

shall  be 
designed  to  accommodate  all  related 
vehicle movements on site such that:

i)  all vehicles shall enter and exit the 

site in a forward direction;

ii)  the area for manoeuvring of delivery 
and service vehicles is separate from 
vehicle parking areas, and preferably 
accessed via a rear service lane; 

iii) cause  minimal  interference  to  the 
flow of traffic within the surrounding 

########Page195

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/166.4
General 
Requirements 

6.4.2
Car Parking 
and Access

road network; and

iv)  safe  and  convenient  access 

is 

provided for pedestrians.

e)  A  Traffic  Impact  Assessment  Report 
shall be prepared by a suitably qualified 
person  and    submitted  as  part  of  a 
development application addressing the 
following  criteria  if  the  development 
exceeds the relevant thresholds within 
SEPP (Infrastructure) 2007:

i)  the existing traffic environment;

ii)  anticipated  traffic  generation  from 

the proposed development;

iii) the  potential  cumulative  impact  in 

the locality;

iv)  the need for traffic improvements in 

the locality;

v)  traffic egress/ingress to arterial/sub 

arterial roads; and

vi)  sight  distance  and  other  safety 

issues.

f)  Each site shall have a:

i)  maximum  of  one  ingress  and  one 
egress for heavy vehicles (combined 
or separated); and

ii)  each  site  may  have  an  additional 
ingress/egress  for  cars  (and  other 
light vehicles).

g)  No car parking spaces shall be designed 

in  a stacked configuration. 

h)  No required car parking spaces shall be 
created as a separate Strata or Torrens 
Title allotment. 

i)  Above ground multi- level  car parking 
structures  shall  be  designed  so  as  to 
integrate  with  the  surrounding  built 
form , incorporate design methods and 
architectural  form  that  compliments 
and adds value to the character of the 
local area.

########Page196

Figure  6.4.2.1  Examples      of  a  well 
landscaped car park

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Note:  Council  may  consider  the  use  of 
mechanical  turntables  and/or  vertical 
stacking devices as part of the car parking 
arrangements. 

6.4.2.2 Loading and Unloading

Design Requirements

a)  Where  practicable, 

loading  bays 
shall  be  separated  from  parking  and 
pedestrian access.

b)  All  loading  and  unloading  shall  take 

place wholly within the site.

c)  No loading or unloading shall be carried 
out  across  parking  spaces,  landscaped 
areas pedestrian aisles or on roadways.

d)  Parking  and  loading  bays  shall  be 
provided and clearly identified on site.

e)  Required  manoeuvring  areas  for  heavy 
vehicles  shall  not  conflict  with  car 
parking.

f)  Each  new  commercial  building/unit 

having a gross floor area:

i)  up  to  200  square  metres  shall 
provide  a  loading  area  to  allow  for 
a  small  rigid  vehicle  to  manoeuvre 
on site;

ii)  more than 200 square metres, but up 
to 1500 square metres shall provide 
an area to allow for a medium rigid 
vehicle to manoeuvre on site; and

iii) more than 1500 square metres shall 
provide  a  loading  area  to  allow  for 
a  heavy  rigid  vehicle  to  manoeuvre 
on site.

g)  Loading  docks  and  service  areas  shall 
not  be  visible  from  any  public  place 
and  shall  be  suitably  screened  from 
adjacent properties.  Screening may be 
achieved by locating such areas behind 
the buildings, by fencing, landscaping, 
mounding or a combination of these, or 
by other means to Council’s satisfaction.

6.4
General 
Requirements 

6.4.2
Car Parking 
and Access

########Page197

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/166.4

General 
Requirements 

6.4.2
Car Parking 
and Access

for  People  with 

6.4.2.3  Access 
Disabilities

Design Requirements

a)  Commercial  development  shall  comply 
with the minimum access requirements 
contained within  the BCA , the Disability 
to  Premises  —  Buildings) 
(Access 
Standards 2010 and Australian Standard 
1428  –  Design  for  Access  and  Mobility 
(as amended).

b)  Notwithstanding  Clause  6.4.2.2  a)  the 
required  percentage  of  car  parking 
spaces  for  people  with  disabilities 
within  retail/commercial  development 
shall be:

i)  one car space per development; plus

ii)  one for every 20 car parking spaces;

iii) and shall be designed in accordance 
with AS No 2890.6 (as amended).

########Page198

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Table 6.4.2.1 Car Parking Rates 

 Commercial Premises 

•  Office Premises                    

•  Business Premises 

Ground  floor  -  1  space  for  every 
25m² of the GFA

Upper levels-1 space per 35 m2 of 
GFA 

6.4

General 
Requirements 

6.4.2
Car Parking 
and Access

Health Services Facility 

•  Health Consulting Room                  

1 space for every 35m² of the GFA

•  Hospital

•  Medical Centre

•  Other health services e.g community health 

services facilities 

Recreation Facilities

•  Recreation facility Indoor

 – (A  squash  court,  indoor  swimming  pool,     
gymnasium,  table  tennis  centre,  health 
studio, bowling alley, ice rink or any other 
building or place of a like character used 
for indoor recreation.       

•  Recreation Facility Outdoor

 –  A golf course, golf driving range, mini-golf 
centre,  tennis  court,  paint-ball  centre, 
lawn  bowling  green,  outdoor  swimming 
pool,  equestrian  centre,  skate  board 
ramp, go-kart track, rifle range, water-ski 
centre or any other building or place of a 
like character used for outdoor recreation.

•  Recreation Facility (major) 

Transport 
required

Assessment 

Study 

1 space for every 35m² of the GFA

On  merits,  consideration  will  be 
given to scale and location of the 
proposed facility

3  spaces  per  court/alley  (where 
relevant); or

1 space per 25m² GFA   

  3  spaces  per  court/alley  (where 
relevant); or

1 space per 50m² of site area

Transport 
required

Assessment 

Study 

########Page199

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/166.4

General 
Requirements 

6.4.2
Car Parking 
and Access

Tourist and Visitor Accommodation 

•  Backpackers’ accommodation              

•  Bed and breakfast accommodation

1  space  per  10  beds  or  1  space 
per 5 bedrooms (which ever is the 
greater) plus 1 space per 2 staff

1  space  for  guest  use  (plus    the 
required parking for the dwelling)

•  Hotel or motel accommodation

 1.5 space per 10sqm, plus

•  Farm stay accommodation

•  Serviced apartments

 1 space per 2 employee

1  space  for  guest  use  (plus  the 
required parking for the dwelling)

I space per 4 apartments; and

1 space per manager/caretaker

Other Commercial Uses 

•  Vehicle body repair workshop or vehicle 

1 space per 25m² GFA, plus

repair station      

•  Highway service centre

•  Service station

•  Truck depot

•  Transport depot

5 3 spaces per work bay (for vehicle 
servicing facilities

Transport 
required

Assessment 

Study 

1 space per 25m² GFA

plus

5  spaces  per  work  bay(for  vehicle 
servicng facilities)

Transport 
required 

Transport 
required

Assessment 

Study 

Assessment 

Study 

•  Entertainment facility;

for indoor facilities:

 –

theatre,  cinema,  music  hall,  concert 
hall, dance hall and the like

 – 1 space per 25m² GFA

for outdoor facilities: 

•  Registered club
•  Eco-tourist facility

 – 1  space  per  50m²  of  site 

area

1.5 spaces per 10m² GFA

1 space per 25m² GFA

•  Environmental facility

1 space per 25m² GFA

########Page200

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)6.4

General 
Requirements 

6.4.2
Car Parking 
and Access

Retail Premises  

 –

Bulky goods premises

 1 space per 60m² GFA

 – Cellar door premise

10 spaces 

 –

Food and drink premises

• 

• 

a restaurant or cafe

1.5 spaces per 10m² GFA

take  away  food  and 
drink premises

1.5 spaces per 20m² GFA

• 

a small bar

1 spaces per 10m² GFA

 – Garden centres

15 spaces; Plus

0.5 spaces per 100 m² of site area

 – Hardware and building 

15 spaces; Plus

supplies

0.5 spaces per 100 m² of site area

 – Kiosks

Nil

 –

Landscaping  material 
supplies

15 spaces; plus

0.5 spaces per 100 m² of site area

 – Markets

1 space for every 15m²of GFA occupied by the market or 
3.5 places for every stall provided whichever is greater

 –

Plant nurseries

15 spaces; plus

0.5 spaces per 100 m² of site area

 – Rural supplies

15 spaces; plus

0.5 spaces per 100 m² of site area

 –

 –

Shops

 Ground level

1 space per 25m² GFA

(Neighbourhood shops)

Upper level(s)

1 space per 35m² GFA

 – Timber yards

10 spaces 

 – Vehicle  sales  or  hire 

1 space per 100m²  site area, plus

premises

 5 spaces per work bay (for vehicle servicing facilities)

########Page201

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16 
6.4

6.4.3 Public Domain 

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure that commercial development enhances and integrates with the existing 

public domain.

 ■ Ensure that public art is provided in accordance with Council’s Public Art Master 

Plan.

Design Requirements

a)  A  public  domain  plan  incorporating 
street  furniture,  paving,  landscaping 
and  public  art  shall  be  submitted  as 
part of any development application for 
a new development having a gross floor 
area greater than 5,000sqm.

b)  Any development application for a new 
development  having  a  gross  floor  area 
greater  than  5000sqm  shall  provide 
public art of a type and location that is 
acceptable to Council.

c)  Any commercial outdoor areas fronting 
the  street  and  used  by  the  general 
public shall be designed to compliment  
the  surrounding  public  domain  and 
spaces.   

d)  Awnings  shall  be  provided  on  all 
newly 
that 
constructed  buildings 
have  road  frontages,  be  it  primary  or 
secondary  frontages 
located  within 
the  Campbelltown,  Macarthur,  and 
Ingleburn Business Centres.

e)  Awnings shall:

i)  be 2.5 metres wide;

ii)  be  setback  from  the  kerb  by  a 

minimum of 1 metre; and

iii) provide  a  minimum  of  3  metres 
clearance  to  the  underside  of  the 
fascia.

Figure 6.4.3.1 -  An example   of 
public  art  within    commercial 
centres.

General 
Requirements 

6.4.3
Public 
Domain

########Page202

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)6.4.4 Landscaping

Objectives:

 ■ Enhance the existing streetscape and promote a scale and density of planting 

that softens the visual impact of buildings.

 ■ Encourage the planting of native and low water consumption plants and trees.

 ■ Ensure that landscaping is in scale with the development.

 ■ Encourage appropriate placement of vegetation that provides both shade and 

solar access opportunities at various times of the year.

6.4

General 
Requirements 

6.4.4 
Landscaping

Design Requirements

a)  A  detailed  landscape  plan  and  report 
shall  be  prepared  by  a  suitably 
qualified  person  and  submitted  with 
all  development 
for 
commercial  development  involving  the 
construction of a new development.

applications 

b)  Landscaping shall be provided between 
the  primary  street  boundary  and  the 
building in accordance with Section 2.5 
Landscaping of this Plan.

c)  All landscaped bays shall be a minimum  
2  metres  wide  and  allow  for  deep  soil 
planting.

d)  Landscaped  areas  shall  be  separated 
from  driveways  and  car  parking  areas 
by a suitable device such as bollards or 
concrete wheelstops to ensure that the 
landscaping is not damaged as a result 
of vehicular movement. 

e)  Landscaped area  at ground floor level 
shall  be  incorporated  within  the  car 
park at all the outer edges of car parking 
bays as illustrated in Figure 6.4.4.1

f)  High  canopy  trees  shall  be  used  to 
allow for clear lines of sight within car 
parking areas and to internal site access 
pathways.

Figure  6.4.4.1  -  An  illustration  of 
the  need  to  use  wheel  stoppers  to 
protect  landscaping  and  the  need 
to  landscape  all  parking  edges  and 
between parking bays. 

Note: 

Refer to Section 2.5 Landscaping 
of Part 2 of Volume 1 of the Plan  
for  additional  requirements  on 
Landscaping.  

########Page203

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/166.4

6.4.5 Residential Interface 

General 
Requirements 

Objectives:

6.4.5
Residential 
Interface

 ■ To ensure that commercial development does not have adverse impacts on the 

amenity of adjoining and nearby residential development.

 ■ To  ensure  that  commercial  buildings  are  appropriately  setback  from  nearby 

residential development.

 ■ To ensure that heavy vehicles associated with commercial development do not 

adversely impact upon residential amenity.

 ■ To provide a visually attractive relationship with residential development.

Design Requirements 

a)  Buildings  adjoining  residential  zones 
and/or  open  space  shall  be  setback 
a  minimum  of  3  metres  from  that 
property boundary.

b)  Loading areas, driveways, waste storage 
areas  and  roof  top  equipment  shall 
not  be  located  adjacent  to  residential 
development.

c)  Any 

buildings 

commercial 

that 
are  designed  to  accommodate  the 
preparation of food from a commercial 
shall  provide  ventilation 
tenancy, 
facilities  to  ensure  that  no  odour  is 
emitted  in  a  manner  that  adversely 
impacts upon any residential premises.  

Figure  6.4.5.1  -  An  example  of  a 
commercial  building,  where  upper 
storeys are  stepped back to minimise 
bulk of the building.

d)  External  lighting  shall  be  positioned 
to  avoid  light  spillage  to  adjoining 
residential development. 

e)  An  acoustic  report  may  be  required  to 
be  prepared as part of a  development 
application  where 
proposed 
development is adjacent to residential  
or  other  sensitive  uses,  such  as  places 
of worship and  child care centres.

the 

Note:  Enquiries  should  be  made  with 
Council’s  Development  Services  Section  as 
to  whether  an  acoustic  report  is  required 
in  respect  to  a  particular  development 
application.

########Page204

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)6.5 Neighbourhood Shops (R3 and R4) 

This Section provides development controls for neighbourhood shops development within 
areas zoned R3 and R4. 

Objective:

 ■ Ensure new development is well articulated, makes a positive contribution to 
the  streetscape  and  respects  the  desired  future  character  of  neighbourhood 
centres. 

 ■ Ensure  that  neighbourhood  shops  are  of  small  scale  and  located  to  service 

residential areas that are not within close proximity to existing centres. 

6.5

Neighbourhood
Shops

Areas Zoned 
R3&R4

Design Requirements

a)  Neighbourhood 

shops  within 

areas 
zoned  R3  and  R4  shall  not  be  permitted 
within    one  (1)  kilometre  radius  of  areas 
zoned  B1,B2,B3,B4,and  B5  and  existing 
neighbourhood shops.

b)  Neighbourhood shops shall only be located 
at  ground  floor  and  shall  be  designed  for 
access for people with 

c)  Where  neighbourhood  shops  are  proposed 
as part of a residential development within 
areas zoned R3, the development controls 
under  Part  3  Volume  1  shall  apply  to  the 
residential component of the development.

d)  Where  neighbourhood  shops  are  proposed 
as part of a residential development within 
areas zoned R4,  the development controls 
under  Part  5,  Volume  1  shall  apply  to  the 
residential component of the development. 

e)  Neighbourhood  shops  within  areas  zoned  

R3 shall be setback a minimum of:

i)  5.5 metres from any street or adjoining 

open space;

ii)  6 metres from the rear boundary where 
it adjoins residential properties or public 
open space; and

iii) 3  metres  from  any  other  property 

boundary.

f)  Neighbourhood  shops  within  areas  zoned  

R4 shall be setback a minimum of:

Note: 

Under  the CLEP (Section 5.4 (7))
the retail floor of a neighbourhood 
shop  is  not  permitted  to  exceed 
100sqm.

########Page205

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16i)  5.5 metres from any street; and

ii)  6  metres  from  any  other  property 

boundary.   

g)  Neighbourhood shops proposed immediately 
adjacent  to  existing  residential  dwellings 
within areas zoned R3 and R4 shall not have 
an adverse impact on the existing amenity 
of  the  occupants  of  adjacent  residential 
dwellings including impacts on solar access, 
noise, odour, visual and acoustic privacy. 

h)  Neighbourhood shops shall provide adequate 
space  for  the  on-site  parking,  loading  and 
unloading of all delivery/service vehicles as 
detailed in under Part 6.4.2 of this part of 
the Plan. 

i)  Exterior  lighting  shall  be  of  low  intensity 
and shielded so that light does not spill out 
onto  the  residential  dwellings  or  project 
above the horizontal plane.

j)  Lighting  shall  not  strobe,  flash,  oscillate, 
be of unusually high intensity of brightness, 
or be uncovered.

k)  Stairs  providing  access  to  residential 

dwellings shall be enclosed.

l)  No  advertisement  shall  be  permitted    on 
any part of the residential dwellings.

m)  Private  car  parking  for  the  residential 
component  of  the  development  shall  be 
identified  and  separated  from 
clearly 
neighbourhood shops car parking. 

n)  Areas for commercial and residential waste 

shall be kept separate. 

o)  No  blank  walls  shall  be  permitted  on  any 
elevation  facing  a  primary  or  a  secondary 
street. 

6.5.1   Access for People with Disabilities

a)  Mixed  use  development  shall  comply 
with  the  minimum  access  requirements 
contained  within    the  BCA  ,  the  Disability 
(Access to Premises — Buildings) Standards 
2010 and Australian Standard 1428 – Design 
for Access and Mobility (as amended).

6.5
Neighbourhood
Shops

Areas Zoned 
R3&R4

########Page206

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)6.6 Subdivision

Objective:

 ■ Encourage  the  equitable  distribution  of  car  parking  within  strata  titled   

commercial development.

6.6

Subdivision

6.6.1 Strata Subdivision

Design Requirements 

a)  No  more  than  50%  of  the  required  car 
parking within a strata title subdivision 
shall  be  allocated 
individual  
commercial  units  within  a  multi-unit 
complex.

to 

b)  All car parking spaces that are allocated 
to  individual units shall be  proportioned 
in number to the size of the units. 

c)  No car parking spaces shall be created 

as a separate allotment. 

d)  No  internal  or  outdoor  storage  space 
shall be created as a separate allotment.

e)  No common property car parking spaces 
shall be fenced off from other parts of 
the development.

########Page207

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/166.7

Commercial
Waste 
Management

6.7 Commercial Waste Management 

Objective:

 ■ Ensure that appropriate  facilities  are provided for the storage and collection 

of commercial waste.

 ■ Minimise adverse impacts on the amenity of all users of the site.

Design  Requirements 
Development

-  Commercial 

Table 6.7.1 Commercial Waste Generation 
Rates.

a)  Commercial 

development 

shall 
make  provision  for  an  enclosed 
onsite  waste  and  recycling  facility 
that  has  adequate  storage  area  to 
accommodate  the  waste  generated 
from  the  development.  Minimum 
commercial  waste  generation  rates 
are contained in Table 6.7.1.

b)  Any 

that 
commercial  premises 
generates  more  than  20%  of  total 
weekly  waste  generated  or  50  litres 
by  weight  or  volume    (whichever 
lesser)  of  meat/seafood 
is  the 
product  shall  be  collected  daily  or 
refrigerated awaiting collection. 

c)  All  commercial  premises  shall  hold 
evidence of a contract with a licensed 
collector  for  garbage  and  recycling 
collection.

########Page208

Type of 

Waste  

Recycling 

Premises  

Generation 

Generation 

Food Premises

Butcher, 

80L/100 m² 

Discretionary

Delicatessen, 

floor area/

Seafood Shop, 

day

Takeaway

Restaurants

10L/1.5 m²/

2L/1.5 m²/

day

day

Retail (other 

than food 

premises) 

Less than 

50L/100 m² 

25L/100 m² 

100m² floor 

floor area/

floor area/

area

day

day

Over 100m² 

50L/100 m² 

50L/100 m² 

floor area

floor area/

floor area/

day

day

Offices

10L/100 m²/

10L/100 m²/

day

day

Hairdresser/

60L/1.5 m²/

Discretionary

Beauty Salon

day

Licensed  

50L/100 m²/

50L/100 m²/

Premises

bar area/day

of bar and 

dining areas/ 

day

10L/1.5 m²/

off dining 

area/day

Motel and other 

5L/bed/day

1L/bed/day

temporary 

accommodation 

premises 

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)6.8 Parenting Facilities  

Objective:

 ■ Ensure  that  adequate  parenting  facilities  are  provided  within  large  scale 

commercial and retail developments.

 ■ Provide  easily  accessible,  safe  and  adequately  equipped  parenting  facilities 
suitable for feeding and other purposes related to the care of babies/infants by 
both female and male carers.

6.8

Parenting 
Facilities 

A parenting facility is a room which 

is  equipped  with  facilities    for 

feeding  (including  breast  feeding)   

and caring of babies/infants. 

Figure  6.8.1  -  An  example  of  a 
parenting facility.

6.8.1  Development  Applications  to 
which this Section Applies 

Design Requirements

a)  Parenting facilities shall be incorporated 
in  all  new  buildings  and  alterations/
refurbishment  of  existing  buildings  for 
regional  and  district  shopping  centres, 
major  sporting  facilities,  swimming 
facilities, 
community 
centres, 
libraries,  hospitals,  theatres,  cinemas, 
department  stores,  and  any  other 
building  where  in  Council’s  opinion  
such  facilities  should  be  provided.

6.8.2 General Requirements

Design Requirements

a)  Each parenting facility shall be designed 

to:

i)  provide a quiet place for parents to 

feed children in privacy;

ii)  be a unisex use facility;

iii) provide an allocated area to change 

nappies;

iv)  provide  hand  washing  (warm  and 

cold) and drying facilities;

v)  provide a toddler toilet; 

vi)  be separated from male, female and 

disabled toilets; and 

vii) be  well  ventilated    in  accordance 
with  Australian  Standard  1668  Part 
2-  Acceptable  Indoor  Air  Qualities 
(as amended).

########Page209

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16This  page  is  intentionally  left 
blank. 

########Page210

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
Part 7            

Industrial 
Development

7.1

Application

7.1 Application

Parts 7 sets out development controls for  industrial development  within  areas zoned 
IN1 and IN2.

Zone Acronyms

IN1 General Industrial: IN1

IN2 Light Industrial: IN2

Note:  Numerical  Development 
Standards  for  building  heights 
and  minimum  subdivision    are 
provided under the CLEP.   

Note: 

For  the  purposes  of  this  part,  industrial 
development includes, but is not limited 
to any general industries, light industries, 
warehouse  and  distribution  centres, 
storage  premises,  vehicle  body  repair 
workshops,vehicle  repair  stations,  self-
storage units, storage premises, and any 
other development that in the opinion of 
Council this section shall apply. 

7.2 Building Form and Character 

Objectives: 

 ■ Ensure  that  industrial  development  is  both  functional  and  attractive  in  the 

context of its local environment through appropriate design.

 ■ Reduce  the  visual  impact  of  industrial  development  on  the  streetscape  and 

surrounding areas.

 ■ Ensure  that  sufficient  areas  are  available  for  landscaping,  access,  and  car 

parking and manoeuvring of heavy vehicles on site.

 ■ Ensure that building materials are high quality and durable.

 ■ Ensure that fencing and walls for security purposes have positive impacts on the 

streetscape and other public domain areas.

 ■ Ensure that  industrial  development  does not  significantly impact  on adjoining 

residential zones. 

 7.2.1 Building Design

Design Requirements 

a)  Building  design  shall  incorporate  the 
following  features  to  assist  in  the 
reduction  of  the  perceived  bulk  and 
mass of development:

i)  provision of vertical and/or horizontal 
offsets 
in  the  wall  surfaces  at 
regular intervals, including columns, 
projections, and recesses;

Figure  7.2.1  An  examples  of  well  
articulated industrial buildings.   

########Page212

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)7.2
Building Form 
and
Character

ii)  articulate 

architectural 

details 
around doors, windows front facades, 
roofs  and entrances; 

iii) articulate  walls  through  the  use  of 
texture,  colour,  material  changes, 
shadow 
facade 
lines  and  other 
treatments, at least every 15 metres; 
and

iv)  at  least  50%  of  the  total  surface 
area  of  the  front  elevation  to  be 
constructed of masonry material. 

b)  Buildings  located  on  corner  allotments 
shall be designed to address both street 
frontages.

Worked example: 

For  a  proposed  development  that 
comprises  a  gross  floor  area  of 
100sqm, the office area shall be a 
maximum  of  30  sqm. As  such  the 
development  would  be  comprised 
of:

a) 30sqm of office area; and

b) 70sqm of  the primary use.

c)  Buildings 

shall 

predominantly 
single  storey  (excluding  basements, 
mezzanines and offices).

be 

d)  Mezzanines shall not comprise an area of 
more than 50% of the gross floor area of 
the ground floor of the respective unit.

e)  Offices shall not comprise more than 30% 
of the gross floor area of the  respective 
unit. 

Note:  For  the  purpose  of  Clause  7.2.1  e) 
above, ‘office space’  means the part of the 
gross  floor  area  that  is  dedicated  to  office 
use. 

f)  No  building  shall  rely  upon  a  required 
path  of  egress  (as  defined  within  the 
BCA) over adjoining private land.

g)  No building or structure shall be erected 
within  a  right  of  carriage  way  or 
easement. 

h)  A  schedule 

  of  proposed  colours, 
materials  and  finishes  shall  accompany 
all  development  applications  for  new 
industrial buildings. 

i)  The main entry to the building shall be 
easily  identifiable  from  the  street  and 
directly  accessible  from    the  front  of 
the building or driveway in the case of a 
multi unit complex.

Figure  7.2.2  Examples  of  easily 
identifiable entry.

########Page213

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)7.2
Building Form 
and
Character

7.2.2 Building Setbacks

Design Requirements

a) 

Industrial development shall be setback 
by:

i)   30  metres to: 

 – the main southern railway corridor, 

 – the South Western Freeway corridor, 

 – Ben Lomond Road between Pembroke 
Road and the Main Southern Railway 
Corridor,

 – Campbelltown Road,

 – Henderson Road, 

 – Pembroke Road,

 – Rose Payten Drive, and 

 – Williamson Road.

ii)   15 metres to:

 – Airds Road,

 – Badgally Road,

 – Ben 

Road 

Lomond 

between 
Campbelltown  Road  and  the  Main 
Southern Railway Corridor,

 – Blaxland 

between 
Campbelltown Road and Rose Street,

Road 

 – the  south  eastern  side  of  Blaxland 
Road  between  Rose  Street  and  Lot 
5 DP 538258,

 – Blaxland  Road  between  Lot  5  DP 

538258 and Narellan Road,

 – Devon Road, 

 – Grange Road,

 – Plough 

Inn 

Road 

between 
Campbelltown  Road,  and  Hollylea 
Road,

 – Sussex Street, and

 – Swaffham Road.

iii) 10  metres  from  any  other  public 

road.

########Page214

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
 
excluding 
widening.

any 

required 

road 

b)  Despite Clause 7.2.2.a) i)  Council may 
consider a reduction of the rear setback 
from the southern railway corridor from 
30 metres to 5 metres providing that:  

i)  a  vegetated  screen/landscape  area 
of  a  minimum  width  of  5  metres  is 
constructed  along  the  full  width  of 
the  property  between  the  railway 
corridor and the buildings;

ii)  the  vegetated    area  is  free  of  any 
easements  or site constraints (refer 
to Figure 7.2.3; 

iii) the  vegetated  area 

is  densely 
landscaped  with  trees  and  plants 
selected  from  the  Campbelltown 
Native  Gardening  Guide  ,  available 
from  Council’s  website  at  www.
campbelltown.nsw.gov.au;

iv)  Council is satisfied that the proposed 
vegetation is sufficient to screen the 
buildings  from  the  southern  railway 
corridor.

Note:  All  reduced  setback  proposals  from 
the railway corridor shall be subject to the 
approval of the relevant public authorities. 

c)  Except  as  nominated  above,  buildings 
adjoining residential, commercial and/
or open space zones shall be setback a 
minimum of 10 metres, the interface of 
which  shall  be  complimentary  to  and 
not  pose  unreasonable  impacts  on  the 
non-industrial development in terms of 
its built form and proposed used. 

7.2.3 Fences 

Design Requirements

a) 

Industrial  fencing  shall  be  a  maximum 
2.4 metres in height. 

b)  All  fencing  in  industrial  developments 
shall  be  of  recessive  colours,  palisade 
design,  or  plastic  coated  and  framed 
chain  wire  with  a  maximum  height  of 

7.2
Building Form 
and
Character

P roperty B oundary

P ropos ed  B uilding

S outhern R ailway Line B oundary 

P roperty B oundary

P ropos ed  B uilding

m
0

.

5

i

n
m

m
0

.

5

i

n
m

E as ement 

S outhern R ailway Line B oundary 

m
0

.

5
n
a
h
t

s
s
e

l

Figure  7.2.3  Illustration  of  the  reduced 
set  backs  requirements  from  the  southern 
railway corridor.

########Page215

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
 
 
 
7.2
Building 
Form 
and
Character

2.4 metres, unless required as part of an 
acoustic solution.

c)  The  use  of  sheet  metal  fencing  is  not  
permitted  unless  required  as  part  of 
acoustic  solution  and  is  appropriately 
screened with landscaping.

d)  All  fencing  in  industrial  developments 
shall be setback a minimum of 3.0 metres 
from  property  boundaries  addressing  a 
primary and/or  secondary street. 

e)  Fencing  on  corner  allotments  shall  not 
obstruct  the  sight  distance  of  traffic 
entering  or  within  an  intersection  or 
roundabout. 

f)  Fencing  shall  not  obstruct  power, 
water, sewer, gas or telephone services, 
drainage  systems,  (including  overland 
flow  paths)  or  any  easements  or  rights 
of way.

g)  Details  for  fencing  shall  be  submitted 
with the development application.

Figure  7.3.4  An  example  of  the  use 
of  a  palisade  fence  in  an  industrial 
development.

########Page216

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)7.3  Car Parking and Access 

Objectives:

 ■ To  ensure  that  all  required  car  parking  and  related  vehicle  manoeuvring  is 

accommodated on site.

 ■ To maintain the free flow and safe movement of traffic into and out of the site.

 ■ To ensure that on site car parking does not detract from the visual character of 

the streetscape.

7.3
Car Parking 
and Access

7.3.1 General Requirements 

Design Requirements

a)  Off street parking  and loading shall be 
designed in accordance with Australian 
Standard AS 2890.1 and 2  (as amended), 
except  as  otherwise  provided  by  this 
Plan.

b)  For  that  part  of  the  gross  floor  area 
occupied  by  office  areas,  lunch  rooms 
and any associated office storage areas, 
car parking shall be provided at a rate 
of one space per 35sqm.

c)  For  that  part  of  the  gross  floor  area 
occupied  by  uses  other  than  office 
areas, lunch rooms and any associated 
office  storage  areas,  car  parking  rates 
shall  be  provided  in  accordance  with 
the following:

i)  a  minimum  of  two  (2)  spaces  (per 

unit), plus

ii)  one space for every 100sqm of gross 
floor  area  for  buildings  up  to  2000 
square metres; plus

iii) one space per 250sqm for that part of 
the building  exceeding 2000 square 
metres in  gross floor area.

d)  In  addition  to  clauses  7.3.1  (b)  &  (c), 
one car parking space shall be provided 
for  every  300sqm  of  outdoor  storage 
space.

e)  Mezzanine  areas  that  are  exclusively 
used  for  storage  purposes  shall  be 
excluded  from  the  calculation  of  total 

Figure  7.3.1  Examples  of  landscaping 
incorporated  into  car  parking  within 
industrial areas.

########Page217

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)7.3
Car Parking 
and Access

gross  floor  area  for  the  purpose  of 
calculating  the  required  number  of 
car  parking  spaces,  providing  that  the 
mezzanine areas:

i)  are  not  divided  into  smaller  spaces 

by internal walls; and

ii)  have no external windows.

f) 

In  addition  to  clause  7.3.1  (c),  motor 
vehicle 
industries  shall  provide  a 
minimum of three (3) car parking spaces 
per work bay/hoist.

g)  Sufficient  space  shall  be  provided  on 
site so that no vehicle shall be required 
to  make  more  than  a  three-point 
movement to exit the site in a forward 
direction.

h)  No car parking spaces shall be designed 

in  a stacked configuration.

i)  No required car parking spaces shall be 
created as a separate strata or Torrens 
title allotment.

j)  Each site shall have a:

i)  maximum  of  one  ingress  and  one 
egress for heavy vehicles (combined 
or separated).

ii)  each  site  may  have  an  additional 
ingress/egress  for  cars  (and  other 
light vehicles). 

spaces, 

k)  A  minimum  of  10%  of  the  required  car 
parking 
including  disabled 
spaces,  shall  be  located  within  close 
proximity to the main pedestrian entry 
to the building.

Note:  Council  may  consider  the  use  of 
mechanical  turntables  as  part  of  the  car 
parking arrangements. 

7.3.2 Loading and Unloading 

Design Requirements

a)  Each  industrial  factory/unit  shall  be 

provided with a loading bay.

b)  Provision  shall  be  made  for  all  loading 

########Page218

Figure  7.3.2  Examples  of  loading  bays 
provided for individual units and separate 
from car parking and landscaped areas.

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)7.3
Car Parking 
and Access

Note: 

For  the  purpose  of  this  section 
(Section 7.3.2):

 – a  small  rigid  vehicle  shall 
be  taken  to  mean  a  rigid 
vehicle that has a minimum 
length of 6.4 metres;

 – a medium rigid vehicle shall 
be  taken  to  mean  a  rigid 
vehicle  that  has 
length 
greater  than  6.4  metres 
but not exceeding a length 
of 8.8 metres; and

 – a  heavy  rigid  vehicle  shall 
be  taken  to  mean  a  rigid 
vehicle  that  has  a  length 
greater  than  8.8  metres 
but not exceeding a length 
of 12.5 metres.

Refer  to  AS  2890.2  (as  amended) 
for  more  information  on  heavy 
rigid  vehicle  measurements  and 
classifications.

and  unloading  to  take  place  wholly 
within the  designated loading area.

c)  No loading or unloading shall be carried 
out  across  parking  spaces,  landscaped 
areas, pedestrian aisles or on roadways.

d)  Each  industrial  building/unit  having  a  

gross floor area :

i)  up  to  400    square  metres  shall 
provide a loading area to allow for a 
small rigid vehicle to manoeuvre on 
site.

ii)  more than 400 square metres, but up 
to 1500 square metres shall provide 
a loading area to allow for a medium 
rigid  vehicle  to  manoeuvre  on  site; 
and

iii) more than 1500 square metres shall 
provide  a  loading  area  to  allow  for 
a  heavy  rigid  vehicle  to  manoeuvre 
on site.

e)  Heavy rigid vehicle swept turning paths 
shall be provided demonstrating that a 
heavy  rigid  vehicle  can  enter  and  exit 
the  site  in  a  forward  direction  for  all 
industrial sites.

f)  Where it is proposed to service the site 
with  articulated  vehicles  exceeding 
12.5m  in  length,  swept  turning  paths 
are to be provided for that vehicle type.

7.3.3 Access for People with Disabilities

Design Requirements

a) 

Industrial  development  shall  comply 
with the minimum access requirements 
contained within  the BCA, the Disability 
to  Premises  —  Buildings) 
(Access 
Standards 2010 and Australian Standard 
1428  –  Design  for  Access  and  Mobility 
(as amended). 

########Page219

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)7.4
Landscaping 

7.4 Landscaping

Objectives:

 ■ To encourage the planting of native and low water consumption plants and trees.

 ■ To enhance the existing streetscape and promote a scale and density of planting 
that softens the visual impact of buildings from public places and adjoining non-
industrial lands.

Design Requirements

a)  A  detailed  landscape  plan  and  report 
shall  be  prepared  by  a  suitably 
qualified  person  and  submitted  with 
all  development  applications  for  the 
industrial development.

b)  Landscaping  shall  be  provided  to  a 
minimum depth of 50% of the following 
required setback area located:

Figure  7.4.1  -  An  Example  of    well 
landscaped industrial development.

Note: 

Refer  to  Section  2.5  Landscaping 
of Part 2 of Volume 1 of the Plan  
for  additional  requirements  on 
Landscaping.  

i)  along  the  full  width  of  each  street  
vehicle 

(other 

than 

frontage 
driveways); and

ii)  along the full width of setbacks from 
adjoining  open  space,  residential 
and/or commercial areas.

c)  The  first  three  (3)  metres  of  all 
required  street  front  landscaped  area 
(as measured from the street boundary) 
shall  be  planted  of  advanced  canopy 
trees that are:

i)  a  minimum  of  two  (2)  metres  in 
height with  a minimum 400 litre pot 
size at the time of planting;

ii)  of native species; and

iii) planted /placed  every 10 metres.

d)  Side boundary landscaping of a minimum 
of one (1) metre width shall be provided 
between  the  street  boundary  and  the 
building line.

########Page220

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)7.5 Outdoor Storage Areas

Objectives:

 ■ To ensure that outdoor storage areas are appropriately accommodated on site.

 ■ To  reduce  the  visual  impact  of  outdoor  storage  areas  on  the  streetscape  and 

surrounding areas.

7.5
Outdoor Storage
Areas

Design Requirements

a)  No outdoor storage shall occur without 

development consent.

b)  Outdoor  storage  areas  shall  not  be 
located  between 
the  primary  or 
secondary  street  boundary  and    any 
building on the allotment.

c)  Outdoor 

storage  areas 
adequately screened from public view.

shall  be 

Figure  7.5.1 
-  An  example  of 
unacceptable  solution  for  outdoor 
liquid storage area

d)  Goods  and  materials  stored  shall  not 
be  stacked  higher  than  an  approved 
screening structure.

e)  Screen  fencing  and  structures  shall  be 
constructed  of  high  quality  materials 
that complement the buildings located 
on site.

f)  All outdoor storage areas shall be sealed 
and drained to the storm water system 
in  accordance  with  any  environmental 
management requirements. 

g)  Notwithstanding any other provision of 
this  Plan,  no  external  storage  of  used 
unregistered  motor  vehicles,  vehicle 
parts,  used  building  materials,  scrap 
products or other industrial waste shall 
be permitted.

h)  No above ground tanks or other storage 
facilities  shall  be  erected  within  a 
required setback.

i)  Goods  shall  be  stored  above  the  flood 

planning level. 

########Page221

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)7.6
Industrial 
Waste 
Management  

7.6 Industrial Waste Management 

Objective:

 ■ To ensure that appropriate  facilities  are provided for the storage and collection 

of industrial waste and recycled materials.

Design Requirements

a) 

Industrial  development  shall  make 
provision for an enclosed on site waste 
and recycling facility that has  adequate 
storage area to accommodate the waste 
generated from the development. 

b)  Any  industrial  premises  that  generates 
more than 20% of total waste generated 
by  the  development  or  50  litres  or  50 
kg    (whichever  is  the  lesser)  of  meat/
seafood product shall be collected daily 
or refrigerated awaiting collection. 

c)  Adequate  provision  shall  be  made 
for  the  screening  and  storage  of  all 
industrial  waste  behind  the  front 
building  setback.

d)  All 

industrial  premises  shall  hold 
evidence of a contract with a licensed 
collector  for  garbage  and  recycling 
collection.

########Page222

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)7.7 Environmental Management 

Objective:

 ■ To  ensure  that  appropriate  environmental  management  measures  are 

implemented to prevent air, stormwater and noise pollution.

7.7
Environmental 
Management 

7.7.1 Liquid Storage

Design Requirements

a)  The storage and handling of flammable 
and  combustible  liquids  shall  be  in 
accordance  with  Australian  Standard 
1940  -  The  Storage  and  Handling  of 
Flammable  and  Combustible  Liquids 
Protection 
Environment 
and 
Authority  publication,  “Bunding  and 
Spill Management” (as amended).

the 

b)  All  above  ground 

liquid  storage 
facilities, including waste shall be in a 
covered bunded area that is constructed 
of impervious materials.

c)  Above ground tanks shall be contained 

in a bunded area that:

i)  is at least 110% of the volume of the 
tank  or  the  largest  tank,    where  a 
group of tanks are enclosed; and

ii)  walls  shall  be  at  least  250mm  in 

height.

d)  The  bunded  area  of  drum  storage 
facilities shall be able to contain 25% of 
the total volume of all drums and shall 
have  a  minimum  capacity  of  at  least 
400L. Walls shall be at least 250mm in 
height.

Note: Some liquid storage requires a  licence 
from WorkCover. Further enquiries, refer to 
www.workcover.nsw.gov.au.

7.7.2 Air Quality

Design Requirements

a)  Any  development  that  is  likely  to  or 
capable  of  generating  levels  of  air 
emissions  exceeding  the  requirements 

Figure 7.7.1 -  An example of liquid 
storage tank. 

########Page223

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
7.7
Environmental 
Management 

of  the  Protection  of  the  Environment 
Operations Act 1997 shall demonstrate 
appropriate  measures 
to  mitigate 
against air pollution. 

7.7.3 Noise

Design Requirements:

a)  Any  development  that  is  likely  to  or 
capable  of  generating  levels  of  noise 
exceeding  the  requirements  of  the 
Industrial Noise Policy (published by the 
Office  of  Environment  and  Heritage) 
shall demonstrate appropriate measures 
to mitigate against noise pollution.

Note:  In  addition  to  the  requirements  of 
this Plan, SEPP 33 Hazardous and Offensive 
for 
Development 
environmental  management  of  certain 
industrial development.

standards 

specifies 

7.7.4 Stormwater and Drainage

Design Requirements

a)  All  activities  with  the  potential  to 
pollute  the  stormwater  system  from 
a  system  failure    shall  be  carried  out 
within a covered and bunded area sited, 
designed  and  constructed  to  Council’s 
satisfaction.

b)  Liquid  waste  and  waste  water  shall 

either be:

i)  recycled on site;

ii)  treated and discharged to the sewer 
in  accordance  with  a  trade  waste 
licence issued by Sydney Water; or

iii) collected,  stored 

in  a  covered, 
bunded  area  and  collected  by  the 
Office of Environment and Heritage; 
and 

iv)  discharged  to  a 

licensed  waste 

management facility.

c)  Development  shall  not  result  in  water 
run-off  causing  flooding  or  erosion  on 
adjacent properties. 

########Page224

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)    
d)  Stormwater 

into 

shall 

run-off 

channelled 

be  
appropriately 
a 
stormwater  drain  in  accordance  with  
Council’s Engineering Design Guide for 
Development  available  at  Council’s 
website at www.campbeltown.nsw.gov.
au

e)  Where    applicable,  the  development 
shall  incorporate  the  creation  of  an 
to  manage 
appropriate  easement 
accordance  with 
stormwater 
Council’s Engineering Design Guide for 
Development  available  at  Council’s 
website at www.campbeltown.nsw.gov.
au.

in 

7.8 Residential Interface 

Objectives:

 ■ To  ensure  that  industrial  development  does  not  have  adverse  impacts  on  the 

amenity of adjoining residential neighbourhoods.

 ■ To ensure that industries which emit significant noise pollution, odour and the 

like are appropriately separated  from residential neighbourhoods.

 ■ To ensure that vehicle traffic associated with industrial development does not 

adversely impact upon the amenity of residential neighbourhoods.

Design Requirements

a)  Loading areas, driveways, waste storage 
areas  and  roof  top  equipment  shall 
not  be  located  adjacent  to  residential 
areas.

b)  External  and  security  lighting  shall  be 
positioned  to  avoid  light  spillage  to 
adjacent residential development. 

c)  An  acoustic  and/or  a 

vibration 
report  shall  be  prepared  as  part  of  a  
development  application  where  the 
proposed  development  is  adjacent  to 
residential  or other sensitive uses, such 
as religious establishments, educational 
establishments and  child care centres.

d)  The  interface  shall  be  appropriately 
screened/vegetated  so  as  to  reduce 
the  visual  impact  of  the  industrial 
development.

7.8
Residential 
Interface

########Page225

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
7.9
Multi Unit 
Complexes 

7.9 Industrial Unit/s

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure that the design of industrial units provide sufficient facilities to ensure 
the orderly development and relationship of a number of industrial activities on 
the site.

Design Requirements

a)  Each  industrial  unit  proposed  on  land 
zoned IN1 General Industrial under the 
CLEP  shall have a minimum LFA of 400 
square metres.

b)  Each  industrial  units  proposed  on  land 
zoned  IN2  Light  Industrial  under  the 
CLEP  shall have a minimum LFA of 100 
square metres.

Figure  7.9.1  -   An  example  of  a  multi-
unit  complex  with  individual  loading/
parking for each unit.

########Page226

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)7.10
Subdivision

7.10 Subdivision

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure that industrial allotments are of an appropriate size to provide sufficient 
space to accommodate future industrial operations and buildings and allow the 
site to function in a safe and efficient manner.

 ■ Ensure that all allotments created have proper and sufficient access. 

 ■ Encourage the consolidation of allotments that are below the minimum allotment 

size under the CLEP.

 ■ Encourage the equitable distribution of car parking within strata titled  industrial 

development.

7.10.1 Torrens Title 

Design Requirements

a)  Any  allotment  created  by Torrens  title 
subdivision  within  areas  zoned  IN1   
General Industrial or IN2 Light Industrial 
under the CLEP shall:

i)  have  a  minimum  street  frontage 
width  of  at  least  30  metres  to  the 
primary street.

c)  No  industrial  subdivision  shall  create 
allotments with battle-axe handles. 

d)  Where  a 

single  development 

is 
proposed on more than one allotment, 
all  allotments  the  subject  of  the 
development shall be consolidated into 
a single allotment.

7.10.2 Strata Subdivision

Design Requirements

a)  No  more  than  50%  of  the  required  car 
parking within a strata title subdivision 
shall be allocated to individual  industrial 
units within a multi-unit complex.

b)  All car parking spaces that are allocated 
to  individual units shall be  proportioned 
in number to the size of the units. 

c)  No car parking spaces shall be created 

as a separate allotment. 

Note:  Numerical  Development 
Standards  for  building  heights 
and  minimum 
subdivision 
standards  are  provided  under 
the CLEP.   

########Page227

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)d)  No 

internal  or  outdoor 

storage 
space  shall  be  created  as  a  separate 
allotment.

e)  No common property car parking spaces 
shall be fenced off from other parts of 
the development.

7.10
Subdivision

########Page228

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Part 8

Child Care Centres  

8.1
Application

8.1 Application

This Part sets out controls relating to child care centres in the City of Campbelltown. 

8.2 Licence Requirement

In order to operate a child care centre in Campbelltown, the applicant needs to obtain:

i)  a development consent from Council under the EP&A  Act; and

ii)  a licence to operate from the NSW Department of Family and Community Services.

Note: 
Applicants  are  advised  to  consult 
with the NSW Department of Family 
and    Community  Services    prior  to 
lodging  a development application 
with Council.

Note: 

Under  the  CLEP,  child  care  centres 
are  permissible  within  the    following 
zones: 

•  RU2 Rural Landscape

•  RU5 Village;

•  R2 Low Density Residential;

•  R3 Medium Density Residential;

•  R4 High Density Residential; 

•  R5 Large Lot Residential;

•  B1 Neighbourhood Centre

•  B2 Local Centre;

•  B3 Commercial Core;  

•  B4 Mixed Use;

•  B5 Business Development;and

• 

E4 Environmental Living.

########Page230

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)8.3
Building Form 
and Character

8.3 Building Form and Character 

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure that child care centres are:

 •

 •

appropriately located and designed to ensure high levels of safety, security, 
health and amenity for children and staff; and

functional through appropriate building design.

 ■ Ensure that child care centres within residential areas are designed to:

 • minimise the impact of child care centres on the amenity of the existing 

neighbourhood by way of noise, traffic and loss of privacy; and

 • maintain the characteristics of residential neighbourhoods.

8.3.1 Locality Requirements

Design Requirements 

Note: 

Numerical 
Development 
Standards  for  floor  space 
ratios,  building  heights  and 
minimum  subdivision    are 
provided under the CLEP.   

a)  Child care centres shall not be located on an 

allotment that:

i)  is  accessed  from  a  State  road  (  refer  to 
Table  8.3.1  for  a  list  of  State  roads  in 
Campbelltown LGA);

ii)  is within 100 metres of the intersection of 

a State road;

iii) is within a no through road;

iv)  has  vehicular  access  to  a  road  where  the  
carriageway  is  less  than  6.5  metres  in 
width;

v)  has  a  building  erected  upon  it  that  is 
constructed  of  materials  that  contain 
asbestos or lead paint;

vi)  is adjacent to a: 

 - potentially hazardous industry;

 - hazardous industry;

 - potentially offensive industry;

 - offensive industry;

 - agricultural produce industries;

 -

livestock processing industries;

 - heavy industrial storage 

########Page231

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)establishments; or

State Roads in Campbelltown LGA 

 - waste  or 
facility.

resource  management 

vii) is  within  a  150  metre  radius  of  a  sex 
restricted premises; sex services premises 
or home occupation (sex services);

viii) presents  a  potential  safety  hazard  for 
vehicle and pedestrian traffic,  unless it can 
be  demonstrated  to  Council’s  satisfaction 
there  would  be  no  vehicular/
that 
pedestrian conflict ( refer to Figure 8.3.1);

b)  Child care centres shall not be located within 
a  basement  of  a  building  (excluding  storage 
rooms  and  offices  ancillary  to  the  child  care 
centre).

c)  Child care centres shall not be permitted on a 
local street, unless it can be demonstrated to 
Council’s satisfaction that:

i)  the  proposed  child  care  centre  will  not 
impact  negatively  on  the  local  traffic 
network;

1. Appin Road

2. Moore-Oxley By Pass

3. Narellan Road

4. Pembroke Road

5. Glenfield Road

6. Campbelltown Road

7. Rudd Road (Queen St to O’Sullivan Rd)

8. Minto Road (Pembroke Rd to Collins 

Promenade)

9. Collins Promenade ( Minto Road to Harold 

St)

10. Harold Street ( Collins Promenade to    

Canterbury Rd) 

11. Canterbury Road ( Harold St to Glenfield 

Rd)

12. Hume Highway

13. Menangle Road

Table  8.3.1  –  A  list  of  State  roads 
within Campbelltown LGA.

ii)  the  proposed  child  care  centre    has 
adequate on site parking and manoeuvring/
turning spaces; and 

Restricted
locations

iii) the amenity of the surrounding properties 

is maintained.

d)  Where a child care centre is proposed to  be 
located in a building on land within Business 
zones, the child care centre (excluding storage 
rooms and offices) shall:

i)  be directly  accessible  by car; 

ii)  not occupy more than one (1) storey; and

iii) be located no higher than the first floor to 
ensure  the  easy  evacuation  of  children  in 
case of emergency.

8.3.2 Site Requirements

Design Requirements

a)  Child care centres shall only be developed on 
an  allotment  having  a  minimum  width  of  20 
metres.    

Figure 8.3.1 – An illustration of 
lots that may present potential 
vehicular/pedestrian safety 
hazard.

Note: 

Refer  to  Clause  4.1C  of  the 
CLEP to find out whether your 
site  meets  the  minimum  area 
requirements  for  a  child  care 
centre.

8.3
Building Form 
and Character

########Page232

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)b)  Despite    clause  8.3.2  a)    Council  may 
consider  a  proposal  for  a  child  care 
centre  within  an  existing  building  on 
sites  within  areas  zoned  B3,  B4  or  B5 
that  do  not  necessarily  meet  the  site 
width requirement.

8.3.3 Streetscape

Design Requirements

8.3
Building Form 
and Character

a)  The  design  of  new  purpose  built 
buildings (including facade treatments, 
building  massing,  roof  design  and 
and 
entrance 
landscaping)  shall  complement  the 
scale  of  surrounding    development, 
character  and  qualities  of  the  desired 
streetscape.

features, 

setbacks 

b)  Notwithstanding  Clause  8.3.1  a)  viii) 
new  buildings  on  corner  sites  shall 
incorporate  facade  treatments  that 
address  both  street  frontages  and 
achieve positive articulation in building 
design.

c)  Clothes lines and  air conditioning units 
shall be screened and not visible by the 
public  when viewed from a public area. 

d)  The built form,  design and layout of all 
outdoor  play  areas  shall  relate  to  the 
natural land form and setting to ensure 
that  the  amenity  (visual  and  acoustic 
privacy)  of  adjoining  properties 
is 
protected.

8.3.4 Fencing

Design Requirements

a)  Fencing  along 

the  primary  and 

secondary street boundaries shall:

i)  not be constructed of bonded sheet 

metal;

ii)  not be higher than 1.2 metres;

iii) be 

articulated, 

incorporate 
landscape 
and 
complement the design and finish of 
the development.

treatments 

########Page233

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Figure  8.3.2  –  An  example  of  a 
child  care  centre  located  within  a 
residential area that is of appropriate 
scale and character.

b)  Fencing to the rear and side boundaries shall 

be:

i)  located behind the primary and secondary 

street setbacks; and

ii)  a  maximum  of  2.1  metres  in  height 

(excluding retaining walls).

c)  Bonded  sheet  metal  fencing  shall  only  be 
permitted where all of the following criteria 
have been met:

i)  the  fence  is  located  behind  a  1.5    metre 

wide landscaped buffer; and

ii)  the  fence  is  located  behind  the  building 

line of all street frontages. 

8.3.5 Hours and days of operation

Design Requirements

a) 

In  residential  and  rural  areas,  the  hours  and 
days of operation shall be limited to:

i)  7:00 am to 7:00 pm Monday to Friday;

ii)  7:00 am to 6:00 pm on Saturdays; and

iii) no  operation  on  Sundays  or  public 

holidays. 

8.3.6 Visual and Acoustic Privacy

Design Requirements

a)  An  acoustic  report  prepared  by  a  suitably 
qualified  person  shall  be  submitted  with    all 
child  care  centre  development  applications 
demonstrating :

i)  that  the  noise  levels  generated  from  the 
child  care  centre,  when  measured  over 
a  15  minute  period,  does  not  exceed  the 
background noise by more than 5 dBA;

ii)  that  the  noise  levels  comply  with  the 
requirement  of  the  Protection  of  The 
Environment  Operations Act 1997; and

iii) illustrating  ways  to  minimise  the  impacts 

of noise on adjoining properties.

b)  Direct  views  to  and  from  neighbouring  and 
surrounding  properties  shall  be  minimised 
through:

8.3
Building Form 
and Character

########Page234

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)i)  appropriate building design and  location of 

outdoor play areas; and

ii)  the  use  of 
buffers.

fencing  and 

landscaping 

8.3.7 Waste Management

Design Requirements

a)  Waste  storage,  collection  areas  and  service/
delivery  areas  shall  be  screened  from  public 
view  and located to minimise adverse impacts 
on adjoining properties.

b)  The waste collection area shall be located and 
designed  to  minimise  safety  hazards  for  any 
person within the site or within the adjacent 
private/public areas.

c)  A waste management plan shall be submitted 
for  all  child  care  centre  developments 
including  information  with  regard  to  the 
storage and disposal of used nappies, general 
waste and recycling. 

8.3.8 Additional Requirements - Residential 
Zones

Design Requirements

a)  A  maximum of 50 children shall occupy a child 

care centre on any single allotment.

b)  The child care centre shall be wholly located 
on the ground floor of the building ( excluding 
offices and storage rooms).

c)  Child care centres shall be setback a minimum 

of:

i)  5.5  metres  from  the  primary  street 

boundary;

ii)   5 metres from the rear boundary;

iii)  3.0 metres from the side boundary; and

iv)  3  metres  from  any  secondary  street 

boundary. 

d)  Where a proposal comprises a child care centre 
and a  residential dwelling, the proposal shall 
meet the following:

 – an open space area shall be provided for the 

8.3
Building Form 
and Character

########Page235

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)8.3
Building Form 
and Character

exclusive  use  of  the  residential  dwelling, 
and shall comply with the section 3.6.1.5 
of Part 3, Volume 1 of the Plan;

 – the  dwelling  shall  be  separated  from  the 

child care centre;

 – separate    kitchen,  toilet  and    laundry 
facilities shall be provided for the exclusive 
use of the child care centre. 

8.3.9  Additional  Requirements  -  Rural  and 
Environmental Protection Zones

Design Requirements

a)  A  maximum of 50 children shall occupy a child 

care centre on any single allotment.

b)  The child care centre shall be wholly located 

on the ground floor of the building.

c)  Child care centres shall be setback a minimum 

of:

i)  20  metres 
boundary;

from  the  primary  street 

ii)   10 metres from the rear boundary;

iii) 10 metres from the side boundary; and

iv)  20  metres  from  any  secondary  street 

boundary. 

########Page236

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)8.4
Car Parking 
and Access 

8.4 Car Parking and Access   

Objectives:

 ■ Provide adequate on-site car parking for staff and visitors that is convenient, 
secure and safe having regard to the traffic generated by the development.

 ■ Ensure efficient and safe vehicular and pedestrian movements to all areas and 

aspects of a child care development.

 ■ Ensure  that  the  location  and  design  of  driveways  and  parking  areas,  waste 
access and collection areas are practical, easily maintained, convenient, safe 
and suitably landscaped.

 ■ Provide safe convenient access for vehicles and  pedestrians whilst minimising 

conflict between them.

8.4.1 Car Parking

Design Requirements

a)  Car parking areas shall be setback a minimum 
of 3 metres from the front boundary and any 
secondary boundary.

b)  A minimum of one (1) on site car parking space 
shall  be  provided  for  every  four  (4)  children 
approved to attend the child care centre.

c)  Off  street  parking  and  loading  shall  be 
in  accordance  with  Australian 
designed 
Standards 2890.1 and 2 (as amended), except 
as otherwise provided by this Plan.

d)  No  required  car  parking  space  shall  be 

designed in a stacked configuration.

e)  Parking  spaces  that  are  stacked  will  not 
be  considered  for  the  purpose  of  parking 
calculations.

f)  Pedestrian  access  shall  be  separated  from 
vehicular access with clearly defined paths to 
and from the building.

g)  Each site shall have a maximum of one ingress 

and one egress  driveway.

h)  The minimum width of a driveway shall be:

i)  three  (3)  metres  for  one  way  traffic 

movement; and

ii)  six (6) metres for two way traffic movement.

Figure 8.4.1 – Stacked configuration 
of  car  parking  spaces    as  shown  in 
this  photos  will  not  be  included  in 
the parking calculations. 

########Page237

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)8.4
Car Parking 
and Access 

i)
h)  Driveways shall be located a minimum 
distance  of  six  (6)  metres  from  the 
tangent  point  of  any  unsignalled 
intersection.

Note: In circumstances where an intersection 
is controlled by lights, a roundabout or the 
like,  applicants  are  requested  to  contact 
Council  for  specific  requirements,  as  the 
location of the driveway may vary. 

i) 

j)  Sufficient  space  shall  be  provided  on 
site so that no vehicle shall be required 
to  make  more  than  a  three-point  turn 
to exit the site in a forward direction.

k)  All  car  parking  spaces  shall  be  line 
marked and delineated with appropriate 
signage and pavement marking.

l)  Development  applications  child  care 
centres catering for 20 or more children 
shall include a  Traffic Impact Statement, 
prepared by a suitably qualified person 
addressing the following criteria:

i)  the existing traffic environment;

ii)  anticipated  traffic  generation  from 

the proposed development;

iii) the  potential  cumulative  impact  on 

the locality;

iv)  the 

need 

for 

local 

traffic 

improvements in the locality;

v)  traffic egress/ingress; and

vi)  sight  distance  and  other  relevant 
safety  issues  including  vehicular/
pedestrian movements.

8.4.2 Access for People with Disabilities

Design Requirements

a)  Child  care  centres  shall  comply  with 
the  minimum  access  requirements 
contained within  the BCA, the Disability 
to  Premises  —  Buildings) 
(Access 
Standards 2010 and Australian Standard 

########Page238

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)1428  –  Design  for Access  and  Mobility 
(as amended).

8.4.3 Emergency Evacuation

Design Requirements

8.4
Car Parking 
and Access 

a)  Development  applications  for  child 
care  centres  catering  for  20  or  more 
children  shall  include  an  Emergency 
Evacuation Plan prepared by a suitably 
qualified  person  in  accordance  with 
Australian  Standard  3745  Emergency 
Control  Organization  and  Procedures 
for 
and 
Workplaces (as amended), addressing:

Structures 

Buildings, 

i)  the  mobility  of  children  and  how 
this  is  to  be  accommodated  during 
an evacuation;

ii)  the location of a safe congregation 
area,  away  from  the  evacuated 
building, busy roads, other hazards 
and  the  evacuation  points  of  other 
residents  or  tenants  within  the 
building or surrounding buildings;

iii) where the child care centre is part 
of  a  larger  building  or  complex, 
that  the  emergency  evacuation 
plan  for  the  child  care  centre  is 
complementary and consistent with 
other  emergency  evacuation  plans 
for the complex; and

iv)  the  supervision  of  children  during 
an  evacuation  and  at  the  safe 
congregation area, giving regard to 
the capacity of the child care centre 
and its approved child:staff ratios.

########Page239

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)8.5
Landscaping

8.5 Landscaping     

Objectives:

 ■ To  encourage  the  planting  of  native  and  low  water  consumption  plants  and 

trees.

 ■ To enhance the existing streetscape and promote a scale and density of planting 
that softens the visual impact of buildings, while maintaining opportunities for 
passive surveillance.

 ■ Ensure that to minimise the risk of personal injuries the appropriate species of 

plants are selected for the landscaping of child care centres.

Design Requirements

a)  Landscaping  shall  be  provided  to  a 

minimum of a:

i)  3 metre wide strip along the primary 
and secondary street frontage (other 
than vehicle driveways); and

ii)  1.5  metre  wide  strip  along  the  full 
length of side and rear setbacks.

b)  Native  mature  trees  on  site  shall  be 

retained.

R ear B oundary 

m
5

.

1

T he S ite

Lands caping 

c)  Development  applications    for  child 
care centres shall include a  Landscape 
Plan and report, prepared by a suitably 
qualified 
the 
following:

addressing 

person 

i)  species, location and mature height 

of proposed planting;

ii)  location of play equipment;

iii) separation  from  car  parking  spaces 

and driveway areas;

iv)  fencing height and materials; and

v)  surfaces (sand, grass or the like).

d)  All  existing  vegetation  on  the  site  and 
on  adjoining  sites  shall  be  assessed  to 
ensure that the plants:

Driveway 

P rimary S treet

m
0

.

3

Figure 8.5.1 – Illustration of the minimum 
required area to be landscaped. 

Figure  8.5.2  –  Landscaping  used  for 
shading and screening.

Note: 

i)  are not toxic or dangerous (refer to 
Appendix  7  for  a  list  of  Unsuitable 
Plant Species); and

ii)  do  not  impose  a  safety  hazard  such 

Refer  to  Section  2.5  Landscaping 
of  Part  2  of  Volume  1  of  the  Plan  
for  additional  requirements  on 
Landscaping.  

########Page240

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)as      personal  injury  from  falling 
branches  and  seeds,  poisoning  and/
or choking.

8.6
Play Areas

8.6 Play Areas    

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure the provision of sufficient play areas for the use of children.

 ■ Ensure that play areas are safe, secure, functional and of high amenity.

Design Requirements 

a)  Child care centre play areas shall:

i)  comply with the Children (Education 
and  Care  Services)  Supplementary 
(as 
Provisions  Regulation  2004 
amended);

ii)  be  appropriately  designed  and 
located to minimise noise impacts to 
adjoining properties; and

iii) be naturally lit and ventilated. 

b)  The siting of outdoor play areas shall:

i)  be  located  on  a  predominantly  flat 

gradient;  

ii)  allow direct supervision from within 

the centre; and

iii) provide adequate fencing.

c)  Where  a  child  care  centre  is  proposed 
to  be  located  on  the  first  floor  of  a 
building  (in  the  case  of  a  child  care 
centre proposed within a comprehensive 
centre zone), the designated play areas  
shall:

i)  be  provided  on  the  same  level  and 
directly  accessible  from  the  child 
care centre; 

ii)  have a minimum ceiling height of 2.7 

metres; and

iii) be  physically  separated  from  the  

indoor space area.

Figure  8.6.1–  Example  of  a  well  designed, 
shaded outdoor play area.

########Page241

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)8.7
Advertising
Signs 

8.7 Advertising Signs  

Objective:

 ■ Ensure that child care centres use appropriate advertising signs.   

Child Care Centre

m
0
0

.

1

Figure  8.7.1  –  Examples  of  acceptable 
signs for child care centres.

Design Requirements 

a)  Despite any other provision of this Plan, 
a child care centre shall have a limit of 
one  (1)  business  identification  sign  in 
accordance with the following:

i)  not an illuminated sign;

ii)  the  sign  shall  be  located  at  the 
building or mounted within the front 
landscaped  area  no  higher  than  1 
metre from the natural  ground level 
of the landscaped area;

iii) the sign shall only include the name 
of  the  centre  and  business  related 
information  such  as  opening  hours, 
type  of  child  care  centre  and  the 
owners of the centre and any other 
accreditation  relevant  to  the  child 
care centre.

iv)  the sign shall not exceed 1.0 square 

metres in area.

b)  An  advanced  warning  sign  that 

is 
approved  by  Council  shall  be  provided 
road  approach,  warning 
on  each 
motorists  that  they  are  approaching 
a  child  care  facility.  The  sign  shall  be 
provided and erected by Council at the 
applicant’s expense. 

Note: Plans for proposed advanced warning 
signs will be submitted to Council’s Traffic 
Committee.

########Page242

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
Part 9              
Public 
Consultation   

9.1
Application 

9.1 Application

This  Part    sets  out  Council’s  requirements  for  public  consultation  involving  Council 
Strategic Planning Documents (CSPDs)  and Development Applications (DAs). 

9.2 Background

Public  consultation  is  an  essential  component  of  the  plan  making  and  development 
process. This Part aims to  ensure that public participation is facilitated in an orderly and 
transparent manner within the City of Campbelltown when dealing with CSPDs and DAs. 

This Part provides guidance for the following matters:

i)  what type of development will be notified and/or exhibited;

ii)  how public consultation will be carried out;

iii) what information will be notified and/or exhibited;

iv)  who will be notified;

v)  how the community will be consulted;

vi)  opportunities for community submissions;

vii)  time of the consultation period;

viii)  who to contact for further information;  

ix)   what type of development will be referred to a Council meeting for determination; 

and

x)  how the community can be involved in the decision making process.

CSPD: Council Strategic Planning Document

CLEP:  Campbelltown  Local  Environmental 
Plan 2015

DA: Development Application

DCP: Development Control Plan

S94 Plan: Sections 94 Plan 

S94A Plan: Section 94 A Plan 

POM: Plan of Management

########Page244

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)9.3 Public Consultation of Draft CSPDs 

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure that the community is adequately consulted  in respect of draft CSPDs.

 ■ Provide an opportunity to persons who may be affected by a draft CSPD to make 
comments to Council for  consideration, prior to the matter being determined.

 ■ Facilitate Community involvement and support of Council’s policy directions.

9.3
Public 
Consultation 
of Draft CSPDs 

9.3.1  Statutory  Requirements 
Draft CSPDs 

for 

a)  Statutory  requirements  for  the  public 
consultation  of  draft  CSPDs  are 
prescribed  in  the  EP&A Act,  the  EP&A 
Reg and the LG Act as follows:

i)  For Local Environmental Plans (LEPs)

The  requirements  for  the  public  
consultation  of  a  draft  LEP  are  set 
out in Part 3, Division 4 of the EP&A 
Act. 

ii)  For  Development  Control  Plans 

(DCPs)

The  requirements  for  the  public 
exhibition of a draft DCP are set out 
in Part 3, Division 2 of the EP&A Reg. 

iii) For  Section  94  Plans,  Planning 
Agreements and Section 94A Plans

The  requirements  for  the  public 
exhibition  of  a    draft  Section  94 
Plan, draft Planning Agreements and 
draft Section 94A Levy Plans are set 
out in Part 4  of the EP&A Reg.

iv)  Plans of Management

for 

requirement 

public 
The 
consultation  of  a  draft  PoM 
is 
articulated  in  Sections  38  &  39  of 
the LG Act.

9.3.2 Public Exhibition of draft CSPDs

a)  Council  shall  give  a  written  notice  of 
a  public exhibition of a draft CSPD by 
a one or more of the following means:

########Page245

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)9.3
Public 
Consultation 
of Draft CSPDs

i)  an  advertisement  placed 

in  a 

local 

newspaper;

ii)  on  the  web-site  of  Campbelltown  City 
Council at www.campbelltown.nsw.gov.au;

iii) in  writing  to  adjoining  landowners,  unless 
Council’s officers are of the opinion that the 
number of landowners makes it impractical 
to notify them.

b)  The  written  notice  of  the  public  exhibition 
for  draft  CSPD  shall  contain  the  following 
details:

i)  the purpose of the draft CSPD;

ii)  where  relevant,  the  land  affected  by  the 

draft CSPD;

iii) the  commencement  date  of  the  public 

exhibition; 

iv)  the closing date of the public exhibition;

v)  how  long  is  the  period  of  the  public 

exhibition

vi)  where the draft CSPD can be viewed; 

vii) who  to  contact  for  further  information; 

and

viii) the  address  of  Council  for  the  receipt  of 

submissions;

c)  Submissions shall be made in writing and; 

i)  sent to:

The General Manager                                                                                              
Campbelltown City Council                                                                                         
PO Box 57
Campbelltown NSW 2560

or 

ii)  e-mailed to:

council@campbelltown.nsw.gov.au

d)  Council  shall  place  a  draft  CSPD  on  public 

exhibition:

i)  at Campbelltown Civic Centre;

ii)  at HJ Daley Library Campbelltown;

iii) at  the  nearest  library  to  which  the  draft 

########Page246

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)CSPD applies; and

iv)  at Council’s web site.

e)  All  written 

submissions 

shall  be 
acknowledged  by  Council  in  writing 
within  14  days  of  the  closing  date  of 
the public exhibition period.

f)  The  public  exhibition  period  of  draft 
CSPDs that are endorsed  by Council for 
public exhibition at a  December meeting 
shall  be  extended  by  an  additional  14 
days or as seen appropriate by Council. 

g)  The notification period of  development 
lodged  with 
applications  that  are 
Council  between    the  first  week  of  
December  to  third  week  of  January 
shall be extended by two (2) to six (6) 
weeks  or  as  seen  appropriate  by  the 
Director Planning and Environment.

9.3.3 Draft CSPDs and Council Meetings 

a)  One  week  prior  to  the  Planning  and 
Environment  Committee  meeting,  the 
applicant  and  any  person  who  made 
a  written  submission  to  a  draft  CSPD 
shall  be  invited  to  attend  and  address 
Council’s  Planning  and  Environment 
Committee meeting; and

b)  Any  person  who  made  a  written  
submission  to   Council on a  draft CSPD 
shall  be  advised  of  Council’s  decision. 

9.3
Public 
Consultation 
of Draft CSPDs

########Page247

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
9.4
Public 
Consultation of 
Development 
Applications

9.4 Public Consultation of  Development Applications

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure  that  public  participation  is  facilitated  in  an  orderly  and  transparent 

manner when dealing with development applications and related matters.

 ■ Outline  procedures  for  the  notification  and  advertisement  of  development 
applications,  applications  to  modify  development  consents  and  the  review  of 
development consents.

 ■ Identify development applications that will be notified and/or advertised and 

those persons who will be notified.

9.4.1 Public Notification of DAs 

9.4.1.1 
Applications

Publicly 

Notified 

Development 

a)  The 

following 

of  development 
types 
applications  shall  be  publicly  notified  if  the 
proposed development is located in or adjoins 
residential, rural or environmental protection 
zoned land:  

i)  dwellings  and  additions  more  than  one 

storey in height;

ii)  secondary dwellings;

iii)  swimming pools;

iv)  Dual occupancies;

v)  semi-detached dwellings;

vi)  attached dwellings;

vii)  multi dwelling housing;

viii) Torrens 

title 

residential 

subdivision 

involving   more than five (5) allotments;

ix)  boarding houses;

x)   home industry;

xi)  home occupation (sex services);

xii) home business;

xiii) child care centres;

xiv) places of public worships;

xv)  educational establishments;

xvi)  community facilities;

########Page248

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)xvii) health services facilities (hospitals, 
medical centres and health consulting 
rooms);

xviii) ccommercial 

and 

industrial 
developments   that in the opinion of 
Council could have major impacts on 
adjoining properties;

xix)  any  non-residential development in 

a residential zone; 

xx) all development on Council land that 
in the opinion of Council could have 
major  impacts  on  adjoining  private 
properties; and

xxi) any  other  development  that 

in 
the  opinion  of  Council  would  have 
major  impacts  on  adjoining  private 
properties. 

b)  In addition to the above, Council shall 
publicly  notify  any  DA  which,  in  the 
opinion  of  Council,  would  be  in  the 
public interest.

9.4.1.2 Re-notification of Amended DAs 

a) 

If in Council’s opinion any amendments 
to  the  proposed  development  would 
have a greater impact upon an adjoining 
property, the DA shall be re-notified

9.4.1.3 Parties to be Notified of DAs

a)  Development  applications  shall  be 

notified to all:

i)  adjoining land owners;

ii)  adjoining properties of lands located 
outside  the  boundaries  of  the 
Campbelltown  Local  Government 
Area; and

iii) the  relevant  neighbouring  Council, 
where    in  the  opinion  of  Council, 
adjoining 
the 
within 
likely 
neighbouring  Council  are 
to  be  affected  by  a  development 
application.

lands 

Note: Adjoining properties on neighbouring 
Councils’  land  shall  be  notified  by  a  “mail 
box”  drop  notification  method,  due  to 

9.4

Public 
Consultation of 
Development 
Applications

########Page249

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
9.4
Public 
Consultation of 
Development 
Applications

potential legal privacy matters for Council.  

b)  Where a property is owned by an owner’s 
corporation  under  the  Strata  Titles 
Act,  1973,  a  Leasehold  Strata  scheme 
under  the  Strata  Titles  (Leasehold) 
Act,  1986  or  associations  under  the 
Community  Land  Development  Act, 
1989,  notification  to  the  secretary  of 
the owner’s corporation is taken to be 
notification to all owners.

9.4.1.4 Method of Notification

a)  DAs shall be notified in writing via post 

or email.

9.4.1.5 Period for Notification 

a)  The  notification  period  shall  be  14 
otherwise 
calendar 
prescribed  in  the  EP&A  Act  and  EP&A 
Reg.

unless 

days, 

b)  The notification period of  development 
applications  that  are 
lodged  with 
Council  between    the  first  week  of  
December  to  third  week  of  January 
shall be extended by two (2) to six (6) 
weeks  or  as  seen  appropriate  by  the 
Director Planning and Environment.

9.4.1.6 Public Notification Letter

a)  Notification  letters  shall  include  the 

following information:

i)  the  address  of  the    development 

site;

ii)  a description of the proposal;

iii) where  and  when  the  plans  can  be 

inspected;

iv)  the 

time/period  within  which 
written submissions will be received 
by Council; and

v)  A4 plans of the proposed development 

(where applicable);

Note:  Council  may  also  publicly  notify 
building certificates for illegally constructed 
buildings/structures 
in  accordance  with 
9.4.1  where  it  is  considered  to  be  in  the 

########Page250

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)public interest.

9.4.2 Public Notification and Exhibition 
of DAs 

9.4.2.1 Publicly Notified and Exhibited   
Development

a)  The following development applications 
shall be publicly notified and exhibited:  

i)  residential flat buildings; 

ii)  mixed use development greater than 

2 storeys in height;

iii) residential master plans (staged DA) 
involving more than 100 allotments;

iv)  commercial 

industrial 
and 
developments that in the opinion of 
Council  would  have  major  impacts 
on adjoining properties;

v)  designated development;

vi)  new  licensed  premises  or  existing 
licensed premises extending trading 
hours (excluding restaurants/cafes) ;  

vii) non 

low 

impact  communication 
facilities under  the Commonwealth 
Telecommunications Act, 1997;

viii) sex services premises (brothels);

ix)  home occupation (sex services);

x)  restricted premises;

xi)   sex services premises;

xii)  home occupation (sex services);

xiii) any development on Council land     
that  in  the  opinion  of  Council  could 
have  major  impacts  on  adjoining 
private properties; 

xiv) demolition of a heritage item;

xv) any  external  works  to  a  heritage 
item  unless Council is satisfied that 
the  proposed  works  are  minor  and 
will  not  have  an  adverse  impact  on 
the heritage significance of the item;  

xvi) any  other  development  that 

in 
the  opinion  of  Council  could  have 

Figure  9.4.1  -  An  example  of 
a  development  that  would  be 
publicly exhibited. 

Note: 

For  the  purpose  of  this  part, 
licensed  premises  are  premises 
licensed  under  the  Liquor  Act 
2007. 

9.4
Public 
Consultation of 
Development 
Applications

########Page251

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)9.4
Public 
Consultation of 
Development 
Applications

major  impacts  on  adjoining  private 
properties.

b)  In  addition  to  the  above,  Council  shall 
publicly notify and exhibit any DA which 
in the opinion of Council is also in the 
public interest.

9.4.2.2 Re-exhibition of Amended DAs

a) 

If in Council’s opinion any amendments 
to  the  proposed  development  would 
have a greater impact upon an adjoining 
property, the DA shall be re-exhibited.

Campbelltown LGA Branch Libraries 
are :

•  HJ Daley Library

• 

Eagle Vale Branch Library

•  Glenquarie Branch

9.4.2.3 Public Exhibition Notice

•  Greg Percival Library 

Ingleburn

a)  Council  shall  place  DAs  on  public 

exhibition:

i)  in  a  public  notice  in  a  locally 

circulated newspaper;

ii)  at Campbelltown Civic Centre;

iii) at HJ Daley Library Campbelltown; 

iv)  at the nearest library of the proposed 

DA; and

v)  at Council’s web site.

b)  The public notice of a DA shall contain 

the following details:

i)  the  description 

of 

the 

land 
(including  the  address)  on  which 
the  development  is  proposed  to  be 
carried out;

ii)  the  name  of  the  applicant  and  the 
name of the consent authority; 

iii) a  description  of 
development;

the  proposed 

iv)  the 

time/period  within  which 
written submissions will be received 
by Council;

v)  where the DA can be viewed; and

vi)  who 

to 

contact 

for 

further 

information. 

c) 

Information  submitted  to  Council  as 
part of the DA shall be made available 
for  the public to view including:

########Page252

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)i)  all plans (excluding floor plans);

ii)  the DA application form;

Note: 

iii) the  Statement  of  Environmental 

Effects; and

Floor Plans will not be included as 
part of he notification package.

9.4
Public 
Consultation of 
Development 
Applications

iv)  any other supplementary material.

9.4.2.4 Period for Public Exhibition 

a)  The  public  exhibition  period  shall  be 
14  calendar  days,  unless  otherwise 
prescribed  in  the  EP&A  Act  and  EP&A 
Reg.

b)  The  public  exhibition  period  of  
development  applications  that  are 
lodged with Council between  the first 
week  of    December  to  third  week  of 
January shall be extended by two (2) to 
six (6) weeks or as seen appropriate by 
the Director Planning and Environment.

9.4.3 Development Proposal Notice at 
the Development Site

a)  Within  14  days  of  the  lodgement  of  a 
DA, the applicant shall place a  sign(s)  
titled  “Development  Proposal”  on  the 
primary  frontage  of  the  development 
site.

Note: The ‘development proposal‘ sign shall 
be supplied by Council following lodgement 
of the DA. 

b)  The  sign(s)  shall  contain  the  following 

information:

i)  the DA number;

ii)  a site plan;

iii) elevation plans (if applicable); and

iv)  a 

brief 
development.

description 

of 

the 

c)  The  development  proposal  sign  shall 
remain  on  the  subject  site  until 
Council’s determination of the DA.

9.4.4 Public Submissions

a)  Public  submissions  are  required  to  be 

made in writing and provide:

########Page253

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)9.4
Public 
Consultation of 
Development 
Applications

i)  the  name,  address  and  contact 
number of the person/s who made a 
submission;

ii)  a reference to the subject DA; and

iii) reasons 

for  objecting 

to,  or 

supporting the DA.

Public 

submissions 

Note: 
not 
confidential,  and  may  be  accessed  by  any 
person  under  the  Government  Information 
(Public Access) Act 2009.

are 

Note: Council shall only acknowledge receipt 
of  public  submissions  where  a  person  has 
provided a name and contact details.

Note:  Any  person  is  entitled  to  make  a 
public  submission  to  a  DA    whether  or  not 
a notification letter was forwarded to that 
person.

b)  Where  a  submission  is  a  petition,  the 
following information is requested:

i)  the name and address of the person 
who coordinated the petition; and

ii)  the name and address of each person 

who signed the petition. 

Note:  In  the  event  that  Council  receives  a  
petition  Council shall  acknowledge receipt 
of  the  submission  from  the  identifiable 
person coordinating the petition.

c)  Written submissions shall be; 

i)  posted to:

The General Manager                                                                                              
Campbelltown City Council                                                                                         
PO Box 57 Campbelltown NSW 2560

or 

ii)  e-mailed to:

council@campbelltown.nsw.gov.au

d)  All  submissions  are  required  to  be 
received by the closing date, unless by 
prior arrangement with the responsible 
Council officer. 

Note: There is no guarantee that submissions 

########Page254

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)received after the closing date of the public 
exhibition will be considered by Council as 
part of its assessment of the DA.

e)  Council  shall  acknowledge  all  written 
submissions within 14 days of the closing 
date of the public consultation period.

Note:  All  submissions  received  within  the 
public consultation period will be taken into 
consideration during the assessment of the 
DA.

Note: The DA will not be determined prior to 
the  closing  date  of  the  public  consultation 
period. 

f)  Except as otherwise provided by Section 
9.5, any  person  who   made  a  written  
submission    to  a  DA  will  be  advised  of 
Council’s decision.

9.4
Public 
Consultation of 
Development 
Applications

########Page255

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)9.5
Development 
Applications
&
Council 
Meetings

9.5 Development Applications and Council Meetings 

Objective:

 ■ Ensure that DAs which have significant community/public interest are  referred 

to a Council meeting for consideration. 

 ■ Ensure  that  interested  persons  are  provided  with  the  opportunity  to  address 

Council’s Planning and Environment Committee.

9.5.1 DAs Referred to a Council Meeting 

a)  The  following  DAs  shall  be  referred  to 
Council‘s  Planning  and  Environment 
Committee  Meeting  and  Council’s 
Ordinary Meeting for consideration:

i)  new  licensed  premises  or  existing 
licensed  premises  under  the  Liquor 
Act  2007  extending  trading  hours 
(excluding restaurants/cafes);  

ii)  non 

low 

impact  communication 
facilities under  the Commonwealth 
Telecommunications Act, 1997;

Note:  

premises 

changing 
Licensed 
locations  within 
same 
commercial  building  will  not  be 
submitted to Council’s meetings. 

the 

Note: 

Licensed  Premises  are  premises 
licensed  under  the  Liquor  Act 
2007.

iii) significant works to a heritage item;

iv)  sex services premises;

v)  sex industry premises;

vi)  home occupation (sex services);

vii) any DA that has received a significant 

number of public submissions; 

viii) any  DA  that  seeks  a  significant 

departure from a CSPD; and

ix)  any DA that, in Council’s opinion, is in 
the public interest to be determined 
at Council’s Ordinary Meeting. 

b)  One  week  prior  to  the  meeting,  the 
applicant  and  any  person  who  made  a 
written submission shall be:

i)  invited 

to  attend  and  address 
Council’s  Planning  and  Environment 
Committee meeting; and

ii)  invited to attend Council’s Ordinary 

meeting; 

########Page256

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)c)  All public submissions shall be addressed 
within the Council officer’s report.

d)  Any    person    who      made    a    written  
submission  to a DA shall be advised of 
Council’s decision.

Note:  In  the  event  of  a    petition,    Council 
identifiable  person 
shall 
coordinating the petition.

invite 

the 

and 

Planning 

Note:  Any  person  who  seeks  to  address 
Environment 
Council’s 
Committee is required to contact Council’s 
Planning and Environment Division, at least 
24  hours  prior  to  the  meeting  to  register 
details.

Note:  Subject  to  the  discretion  of  the 
Chairperson  of  Council’s  Planning  and 
Environment  Committee,  an  applicant  and 
any other person will be given approximately 
5 minutes to address the Committee

Note:  The  Council  officer’s  report  will  be 
publicly  available  at  4:00pm  on  the  Friday 
prior  to  the  Planning  and  Environment 
Committee Meeting via Council’s web site or 
by  contacting  Council’s  Corporate  Strategy 
& Support Section.

9.5
Development 
Applications
&
Council 
Meetings

########Page257

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)This  page  is  intentionally  left 
blank. 

########Page258

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
Part 10 Places of 
Public Worship  

########Page259

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
 
  10.1
Application

10.1 Application 

This part  of the Plan sets out controls relating to the development of places of public 
worship (including extensions to existing development) in the City of Campbelltown. 

10.2 General Design Requirements  

Objectives: 

 ■ Ensure  that  places  of  public  worship  are  appropriately  located  and  designed  to 
minimise any adverse effects (high noise levels, traffic impacts, overshadowing, 
privacy and access) on  the amenity of surrounding land uses.

 ■ Ensure that the scale, bulk and height of places of public worship are compatible 

with the predominant character of surrounding developments. 

10.2.1 Locality Requirements

Note: 

a)  Development  applications  for  a  newly 
proposed  place  of  public  worship 
or  additions  and  alterations  to  an 
existing  place  of  public  worship  shall 
be accompanied by a report addressing 
the  suitability  of  the  site,  street, 
neighbourhood  and  locality    for  the 
scale  and  intensity  of  the  proposed 
development.

b)  Places  of  public  worship  shall  not  be 
located  within  a  150  metre  radius 
(as  measured  from  the  point  of  the 
main  entry  of  the    proposed  place  of 
public  worship)  of  a  brothel,  or  any  
sex-services  premises  or  restricted 
premises. 

c)  Places of public worship on urban land 
shall  be  located  a  minimum  of  250 
metres (as measured from the point of 
the main entry of the  proposed place of 
public worship) of  any other approved 
place  of  public  worship  development, 
in  order  to  minimise  potential  traffic 
generation,  noise  or  amenity  impacts 
upon the surrounding locality.

d)  Newly proposed places of public worship 
located  on  land  within  a  residential 

Under  the  CLEP,  places  of  public 
worships  are  permissible  within 
the  following zones: 

•  RU5 Village;

•  R2 Low Density Residential;

•  R3 

Medium 

Density 

Residential;

•  R4 High Density Residential; 

•  B2 Local Centre;

•  B3 Commercial Core;  

•  B4 Mixed Use;

•  B5 Business Development;

• 

• 

• 

IN1General Industrial;

IN2 Light Industrial;and

E3 
Management.

Environmental 

Note: 
Contact Council’s Customer Service 
Centre (02 4645 4000) to find out if 
the proposed public worship place 
is  within  close  proximity  to  a  sex 
service premise.  

########Page260

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)zone shall have a maximum capacity of 
100  people at any one time. 

10.2.2 Height

a)  Spires and similar structures shall only 
be  permitted  if    in  Council’s  opinion  
the proposed structure:

i)  is  of  appropriate  height,  bulk  and 

scale; and

ii)  does not result in overshadowing of 
private open space and living rooms 
of adjacent residential development 
or  the  residential  component  of  a 
mixed use development.

10.2.3 Acoustic and Privacy Amenity  

a)  An acoustic report prepared by a suitably 
qualified person shall be submitted with  
all place of public worship development 
applications demonstrating :

i)  that the noise levels generated from 
the  place  of  public  worship,  when 
measured  over  a  15  minute  period, 
does  not  exceed  the  background 
noise  by  more  than  5  dBA  at  the 
property boundary;

ii)  that the noise levels comply with the 
requirement of the Protection of The 
Environment    Operations  Act  1997; 
and

iii) ways  to  minimise  the  impacts  of 

noise on adjoining properties.

b)  Despite  Clause  10.3.3.a)  above,  an 
acoustic  report  for  proposed  places 
of  public  worship  within  industrial 
zones  shall  only  be  required  where 
the  proposal  is  located  within  150 
metres    from    land  where  residential 
development is a permissible land use.

Note: Choice of fencing material should be 
considered  and  addressed  as  part  of  the 
acoustic report.  

c)  On-site  noise 

generating 
including, but not limited to:

sources 

10.2
General Design 
Requirements 

########Page261

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)  10.2
General Design 
Requirements  

i)   plant rooms and equipment;

ii)   power supply generators;

iii)  air conditioning units;

iv)   pool pumps; and

v)  recreation areas;

shall  be  designed  and  located  to 
ensure that the noise levels generated 
by  such  facilities  do  not  exceed 
5dBa  above  background  levels  at  the 
property boundary.

d)  The  use    of  external  amplified  sound 
systems, 
including  public  address 
amplified  bells  and  amplified  calls  for 
prayers  by  places  of  public  worship  is 
prohibited.  

e)  Direct  views  to  and  from  neighbouring 
and  surrounding  properties  shall  be 
minimised by means including:

i)  appropriate  building  design  and  
location of gathering areas; and

ii)  the  use  of  appropriate  screening, 

fencing and landscaping.

10.2.4 Streetscape

Design Requirements

a)  The design of new purpose built buildings 
(including  facade  treatments, building 
massing,  roof  design  and  entrance 
features, setbacks and landscaping) shall 
complement  the  scale  of  surrounding  
development, character and qualities of 
the desired streetscape.

b)  New  buildings  on  corner  sites  shall 
incorporate  facade  treatments  that 
address  both  street  frontages  and 
achieve positive articulation in building 
design.

c)  Air  conditioning  units  and  water  tanks 
shall  be  screened  and  not  visible  when 
viewed from a public area.

d)  Off  street  car  parking  areas  shall  be 
screened by means of landscaping.  

########Page262

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)10.2.5 Fencing

Design Requirements

a)  Fencing along the primary and secondary 

street boundaries shall:

i)  not be constructed of bonded sheet 

metal;

ii)  not be higher than 1.2 metres;

10.2
General Design 
Requirements 

iii) be 

articulated, 

incorporate 
and 
landscape 
complement the design and finish of 
the development.

treatments 

b)  Fencing to the rear and side boundaries 

shall:

i)  be  located  behind  the  primary  and 

secondary street setbacks; and

ii)  be  a  maximum  of  2.1  metres  in 
height (excluding retaining walls).

c)  Despite  Clause  10.2.5  b) 

  above, 
fencing,  where  applicable,  shall  be 
designed to ensure that the privacy of 
adjacent  residential  developments  is 
maintained. 

d)  Bonded  sheet  metal  fencing  shall  only 
be permitted where all of the following 
criteria have been met:

i)  the  fence  is  located  behind  a  1.5  
metre deep landscaped buffer; and

ii)  the  fence  is  located  behind  the 
building line of all street frontages. 

10.2.6 Places of public worship on land 

located within residential zones 

a)  Newly proposed places of public worship 
(whether  a  newly  proposed  building  is 
proposed to be built or a change of use 
of  an existing building) located on land 
within  residential  zones  shall  not  be 
located on a site that:

i)  has an area  less than 1,500 sqm;

ii)  is within a no through road;

########Page263

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)  10.2
General Design 
Requirements 

iii) has  principal  vehicular  access  to  a 
road  where  the    carriageway  is  less 
than 6.5 metres; and

iv)  has  a  width  less  than  20  metres  ( 

measured at the front building line).

b)  For  newly  proposed  places  of  public 
worship  within  residential  zones,  the 
Indoor  assembly    area  shall  have  a 
maximum  total    floor  area  of  160sqm. 
For the purpose of this clause, assembly 
area  means  the  total  floor  space  area 
of  all  buildings  on  the  site  excluding 
the  areas  of  offices,  library,  kitchens, 
toilets,  changing  rooms  and  residential 
accommodation. 

c)  Any area that is immediately adjacent to 
the assembly area and not fully separated 
from  the  assembly  area  by  walls,  shall 
be  included  in  the  calculations  of  the 
assembly  area  including  open  access 
corridors and areas between aisles.

d)  Buildings  and  structures  comprising 
places of public worship shall be setback 
a minimum of:

i)  3 metres from any side boundary;

ii)  5.5  metres  from  the  primary  street 

boundary; and

iii) 10  metres  from  the  rear  boundary; 

and

iv)  5  metres  from  the  secondary  street 

boundary. 

e)  Places of public worship shall not result 
in loss of solar access that would exceed 
the  minimum  requirements  specified  in 
clause 3.6 Solar Access.

f)  Places  of  public  worship    shall    have  
appropriate regard to the impact on solar 
access  to  useable  private  open  space, 
windows of living areas, solar collectors 
and  clothes  drying  areas  of  adjoining 
and nearby residential development.

g)  The operation hours of newly proposed 
places  of  public  worship  within 

########Page264

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)residential zones shall be determined on 
individual merit.

10.2.7 Places of public worship located 
on land within business zones 

a)  Places  of  public  worship  located  on 
land 
  within  business  zones  shall 
comply  with  the  setbacks  and  building 
envelope requirements specified in Part 
6 Commercial Development of this Plan.

b)  Places of public worship shall not result 
in loss of solar access that exceeds the 
minimum requirements specified in Part 
5  Residential  Apartment  Buildings  and 
Mixed-Use  Development  under  Clause 
5.4.5 Solar Access of the Plan.

10.2.8  Places of public worship located 
on land within Industrial zones 

a)  Places  of  public  worship  located  on 
shall 
land  within 
comply  with  the  setbacks  and  building 
envelope requirements specified in Part 
7 Industrial Development of this Plan.

industrial  zones 

10.2.9  Places  of  public  worship  on 
land  zoned  for  rural  or  environmental 
protection purposes. 

a)  Despite  any  other  provisions  of  this 
Part, building and structures comprising 
places  of  public  worship  located  on 
land  zoned  for  rural  or  environmental 
protection purposes shall be set back a 
minimum of:

i)  20  metres  from  the  primary  street 

boundary; 

ii)  10 metres from the rear boundary;

iii) 10 metres from a side boundary; and

iv)  20 metres from any secondary street 

boundary. 

b)  Places  of  public  worship  shall  only  be 
permitted  where  it  is  serviced  by  a 
sealed road.

10.2
General  Design 
Requirements 

Note: 
Refer to Clause 4.1D   Minimum 
land 
lot  sizes  for  certain 
uses  in  certain  environment 
protection zones of the CLEP. 

########Page265

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)  10.3

Car Parking 
&
 Access 

10.3 Car Parking and Access   

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure efficient and safe vehicular and pedestrian movements to and from the 

place of public worship.

 ■ Ensure  that  the  location  and  design  of  driveways  and  parking  areas,  waste 
access and collection areas are practical, easily maintained, convenient, safe 
and suitably landscaped.

 ■ Ensure  that  the  surrounding  street  network  and  intersections  continue  to 

operate safely and effectively.

 ■ Ensure that sufficient car parking spaces are provided on site. 

 ■ Minimise parking arising from places of public worship on local streets.

10.3.1 Car Parking

Design Requirements

a)  Car  parking  areas  shall  be  setback  a 
minimum  of  3  metres  from  the  front 
boundary and any secondary boundary.

b)  A minimum of one (1) car parking space 
shall be provided for every 3.5 site users.

c)  Off  street  parking  and  loading  shall  be 
designed in accordance with Australian 
Standards 2890 (as amended), except as 
otherwise provided by this Plan.

d)  No  required  car  parking  space  shall  be 
designed in a stacked configuration.

e)  No  required  car  parking  space  or 
emergency/overflow  space  shall  be 
located within Effluent Disposal Area.

f)  Pedestrian  access  shall  be  separated 
from  vehicular  access  and  car  parking 
areas with clearly defined paths to and 
from the building.

g)  Each place of public worship shall have a 
maximum of one ingress and one egress  
driveway.

h)  The  minimum  width  of  a  driveway 
serving  a  place  of  public  worship  shall 
be:

i)  3  metres 

for  one  way 

traffic 

########Page266

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)movement; and

ii)  6  metres 
movement.

for 

two  way 

traffic 

i)  Driveways shall :

i)  be  located  a  minimum  distance  of 6 
metres from the tangent point of any 
unsignalled intersection; and

ii)  be sealed. 

Note: In circumstances where an intersection 
is controlled by lights, a roundabout or the 
like,  applicants  are  requested  to  contact 
Council  for  specific  requirements,  as  the 
location of the driveway may vary. 

j)  Sufficient space shall be provided on site 
so  that  no  vehicle  shall  be  required  to 
make  more  than  a  three-point  turn  to 
exit the site in a forward direction.

k)  All  car  parking  spaces  shall  be  line 
marked and delineated with appropriate 
signage and pavement marking.

l)  Development  applications  for  places  of 
public  worship    shall  include  a    Traffic 
Impact  Statement,  prepared  by  a 
suitably qualified person addressing the 
following criteria:

i)  the existing traffic environment;

ii)  anticipated  traffic  generation  from 

the proposed development;

iii) identification  of    the  celebrations, 
festivals,  and  the  main  day  of  the 
week  for  gathering/praying  which 
are  likely  to  attract  larger  than 
normal  attendance  at  the  premises, 
the  attendance  numbers  associated 
with  such  events  and  measures  to 
mitigate  and  manage  their  impacts 
upon  the  traffic  movements  within 
the locality;

iv)  the  potential  cumulative  impact  on 

the locality;

v)  the 

need 

for 

local 

traffic 

improvements in the locality;

10.3
Car Parking 
&
Access 

########Page267

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)  10.3
Car Parking 
&
Access 

vi)  traffic egress/ingress; and

vii) sight  distance  and  other  relevant 
safety  issues  including  vehicular/
pedestrian movements.

10.3.2  Access 
Disabilities

for  People  with 

Design Requirements

a)  Places  of  public  worship  shall  comply 
with the minimum access requirements 
contained within  the BCA and Australian 
Standard  1428  –  Design  for  Access  and 
Mobility (as amended).

########Page268

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)10.4 Landscaping     

Objectives:

 ■ To  encourage  the  planting  of  native  and  low  water  consumption  plants  and 

trees.

 ■ To enhance the existing streetscape and promote a scale and density of planting 
that softens the visual impact of buildings, while maintaining opportunities for 
passive surveillance.

 ■ To increase the amenity of car parking areas.

10.4
Waste 
Management   

Note:  Refer  to  Section  2.5 
Landscaping of Part 2 of Volume 
1  of  the  Plan    for  additional 
requirements on Landscaping.  

Design Requirements

a)  Landscaping  shall  be  provided  to  a 

minimum of a:

i)  3 metre deep strip along the primary 
and secondary street frontage (other 
than vehicle driveways); and

ii)  1.5  metre  deep  strip  along  the  full 
width of side and rear setbacks.

b)  Where possible, existing on-site mature 
retained  and 

vegetation  shall  be 
incorporated into the development. 

c)  Development  applications    for  places 
of  public  worship  shall 
include  a  
Landscape Plan and report, prepared by 
a  suitably  qualified  person  addressing 
the following:

i)  species, 

location,  pot  size  and 
mature height of proposed planting;

ii)  separation  from  car  parking  spaces 

and driveway areas; 

iii) fencing height and material; and

iv)  enhance  the  visual  amenity  of  car 

parking areas.

d)  All  new  landscaping  associated  with 
development for places of public worship 
shall  maximise  the  incorporation  of 
endemic species. 

########Page269

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)  10.5
Landscaping  

10.5 Waste Management 

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure that appropriate facilities are provided for the storage and collection of 

waste  generated by places of public worship.

Design Requirements

a)  A waste minimisation management plan 
shall be submitted with all development 
applications  for 
  places  of  public 
worship. 

b)  The  waste  minimisation  management  
plan  shall  include  proposals  for  waste 
management on special events dates.

c)  Waste  storage,  collection  areas  and 
service/delivery areas shall be screened 
from  public  view    and  located  to 
minimise  adverse  impacts  on  adjoining 
properties.

d)  The  waste  collection  area  shall  be 
located  and  designed  to  minimise 
amenity  impacts  and  safety  hazards 
for any person within the site or within 
adjacent private/public areas.

########Page270

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Part 11  

Vegetation and 

Wildlife 
Management   

########Page271

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
 
     11.1
Application

11.1 Application 

This Part of the Plan sets out controls relating to:

1.  The management of native vegetation and wildlife habitat (native flora and native 

fauna);

2.  The protection/preservation of hollow-bearing trees; and 

3.  Permits  and development applications for vegetation management.

This part shall be read in conjunction with ( but not limited to) Clause 5.9 Preservation 
of trees and vegetation (Clause 5.9) of the CLEP. Trees and other vegetation are defined  
under Section 1.4  Dictionary of Volume 1 of the Plan and included in the notes below.  

Note: 

Note: 

Other Vegetation means any plant 
life not defined by this Part as a tree 
and includes any sapling, shrub, scrub, 
understorey plants, ground cover (being 
any type of herbaceous vegetation) and 
plants occurring in a wetland that:

 –

 –

 –

 –

endangered 

Provides  habitat  or  likely  habitat 
for threatened species, populations 
and 
ecological 
communities as defined within the 
Threatened  Species  Conservation 
Act; or

Is located within a riparian zone or 
within  40  metres  of  the  top  bank 
of  a  creek,  river,  watercourse, 
wetland,  stream  or  other  aquatic 
habitat; and

located  on 

Is 
land  owned  by 
Council  or  under  its  care,  control 
and management; and

Forms part of native vegetation.       

Tree means a perennial plant 
with at least one self supporting 
stem which,

i) 

ii) 

has a height of more than 
three (3) metres, or

an 

outside 
has 
circumference of at least 
500mm  at  ground  level; 
or

iii)  has  a  branch  and  foliage 
crown  spread  of  at  least 
4 metres. 

Note:

For  definitions  of  terms  used  in 
this  part,  refer  to  Section  1.4 
Dictionary  of Part 1, Volume 1  of 
the Plan and the Dictionary under 
the  CLEP. 

########Page272

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Note:

Native vegetation (as defined under the CLEP) has the same meaning as in the 

11.1
Application

Native Vegetation Act 2003. 

Note. The term is defined as follows:

Meaning of “native vegetation”

(1)  Native  vegetation  means  any  of  the  following  types  of  indigenous    
vegetation:

(a)  trees (including any sapling or shrub, or any scrub);

(b)  understorey plants,

(c)  groundcover (being any type of herbaceous vegetation),

(d)  plants occurring in a wetland.

(2)  Vegetation is indigenous if it is of a species of vegetation, or if it comprises 
species of vegetation, that existed in the State before European settlement.

(3)  Native  vegetation  does  not  include  any  mangroves,  seagrasses  or  any 
other  type  of  marine  vegetation  to  which  section  205  of  the  Fisheries 
Management Act 1994 applies.

Figure 11.1.1 - Native fauna and native flora- Campbelltown LGA.

########Page273

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)     11.2

Management 
of 
Native 
Vegetation
&
Wildlife 
Habitat 

11.2 Management of Native Vegetation and Wildlife Habitat 

Objectives: 

 ■ Protect  and  conserve  the  City’s  biodiversity  through  the  retention  of  native 

vegetation.

 ■ Maintain, enhance and/or establish corridors, which enable existing plant and 

animal communities to survive and range in their natural habitat.

 ■ Protect habitat resources including hollow-bearing trees and  hollow logs within 

Campbelltown LGA.

 ■ Provide appropriate measures to compensate for the loss of hollow-bearing trees 

within the LGA.

11.2.1 Management of  Native Vegetation 
and  Wildlife Habitat

a)  For  sites  containing  native  vegetation 

and/or fauna habitat:

i) 

the    development    shall    be  
sited,  designed    and    managed  
to  avoid any negative impact on 
biodiversity where possible;

ii)  where  an impact    on biodiversity 
cannot  be  avoided  and  no 
reasonable alternative is available 
the  proposed  development  shall 
be  sited,  designed,  constructed 
and  managed  in  a  manner  that 
minimises  the  impact  on  native 
maintains 
and 
biodiversity 
habitat  connectivity  as  much  as 
practicable;

iii)  any impact on biodiversity shall be  
essential  for  the development and 
limited to the extent necessary to 
facilitate the safe and orderly use 
of the land for the purpose of the 
development;

iv) 

be 

arrangements  must 
put 
into  place  to  ensure  that  the 
biodiversity values on site will be 
proactively  managed  to  mitigate 
the impacts. 

v) 

in  circumstances  where  impacts 
on biodiversity cannot be avoided, 

Figure  11.2.1  -  The  protection 
of  native  animals  is  essential  for  
maintaining  natural  ecosystems 
within Campbelltown LGA. 

Note:

Habitat  resources  means  specific 
ecosystem  elements  that  provide 
valuable  foraging  substrates  and 
shelter sites that are important to 
the survival of a range of species. 
Habitat  resources  are  considered 
to be a limiting factor as they are in 
short supply across the landscape. 
Examples  include  hollow-bearing 
trees, hollow logs and bush rock.

########Page274

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)a  Biodiversity  Statement  shall  be 
prepared  and  submitted  with  the 
DA  to  demonstrate  how  Clause 
11.2.1  a)  ii)  and  iv)  above  have 
been addressed. 

Note:  For  requirements  relating  to  a 
Biodiversity Statement Refer to Appendix 1.  
(Note:  This  statement  can  be  incorporated 
into  a  Native  Flora  and  Native  Fauna 
Assessment Report).

11.2
Management 
of 
Native 
Vegetation
&
Wildlife 
Habitat 

prepared 
the  Office 

b)  A  Native  Flora  and  Native  Fauna 
in 
Report 
Assessment 
accordance  with 
of 
Environment and Heritage’s Threatened 
Species 
Assessment 
Guidelines  and  Field  Survey  Methods 
is  required  to  be  lodged  with  the 
development application where one or 
more of the following criteria is met:

Survey 

and 

i) 

 –

 –

ii) 

iii) 

the site contains:

native vegetation; and/or

to 

resources 

sensitive  environmental  areas 
important 
contain 
likely 
habitat 
for  native 
fauna  (although  these  may  not 
be  vegetated)  such  as  riparian 
areas,  rivers,  creeks,  wetlands 
or swamps, rocky outcrops, caves 
and cliffs;

there  are  proposed  direct  or 
indirect 
native 
vegetation  or  other  native  fauna 
habitats;

impacts 

on 

there  is  a  potential  impact  on 
threatened  species,  populations 
ecological 
or 
their  habitats  either  directly  or 
indirectly.

communities 

Note: Office of Environment and Heritage’s 
Threatened  Species  Survey  and Assessment 
Guidelines  and  Field  Survey  Methods  are 
available on the Office of Environment and 
Heritage’s website.

Note:  Council  may  vary  the  survey  and 

Figure  11.2.2  -  The  conservation 
of  native  vegetation  is  a  key 
to  ensuring  the  protection  of 
biodiversity.

Note:

Refer  to  Clause  7.5  of  the  CLEP 
for requirements relating to bush 
rock. 

########Page275

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)     11.2

Management 
of 
Native 
Vegetation
&
Wildlife 
Habitat 

reporting  requirements  outlined  under 
Clause  11.2.1  b)  in  circumstances  where 
sufficient  information  and  justification are 
provided.   

c)  As  part  of  the  Native  Flora  and  Native 
Fauna  Assessment,  an  Assessment  of 
Significance  shall  be  undertaken  for 
each  threatened  species,  population 
and ecological community which is likely 
to  be  directly  or  indirectly  impacted, 
by  the  proposal.    All  Assessments 
of  Significance  must  be  undertaken 
in  accordance  with  the  Threatened 
Species  Guidelines  –  The  Assessment 
of  Significance  (DECC  2007).    These 
guidelines  are  available  on  the  Office 
of Environment and Heritage’s website. 

d)  Koala  Habitat  assessments  undertaken 
as  part  of  11.2.1  b)  above  shall  meet 
the  requirements  of  SEPP  44  and 
Council’s  Guidelines  for  Koala  Habitat 
Assessments  (Refer  to  Appendix  4  of 
Volume 1 of the Plan). 

11.2.2 Protection of Hollow-bearing Trees 
and Hollow Logs

a)  All  hollow-bearing    trees    shall    be 

retained, where practical.

b)  Notwithstanding 

  Section 

  11.3.1  
Exemptions  of  this  Part,  in  certain 
circumstances, Council may consent to 
the  removal  of  a  hollow-  bearing  tree 
providing that:

i) 

The   applicant   can   demonstrate   
to  the  satisfaction  of  Council 
that  the  development  cannot 
be  sited  in  a  manner  that  would 
enable  the  hollow  bearing  tree 
to  be  retained.  (Note:  reduced 
development  yields  will  not  be 
considered  as  satisfactory  reason 
for the removal of hollow bearing 
trees).

ii) 

Prior  to  granting  consent  for  the 
removal  of  a  hollow  bearing  tree 
the  tree  should  be  surveyed  and 
a  strategy  for  removal  (timing 

########Page276

Note:

A  Native  Flora  and  Native 
Fauna  Assessment  Report  may 
be required for the removal of 
5  trees  or  more  whether  the 
proposal  is  lodged  to  Council 
under  Part  11  Vegetation  and 
Wildlife Management or as part 
of  a  DA  involving  construction 
works.  

Note:

Hollow-bearing  trees  means  trees 
where cavities have formed in the 
trunk or branches of a live or dead 
tree.  Such  hollows  are  usually 
more  characteristic  of  older, 
mature  to  over-mature  trees  but 
may form in earlier growth stages 
depending on tree species. Hollow-
bearing trees provide wildlife with 
foraging,  shelter,  roosting  and 
nesting  habitat  and  some  species 
are  considered  to  be  hollow-
dependent  in  that  they  require 
hollows  as  a  key  component  of 
their  habitat  either  on  a  daily  or 
seasonal basis. The loss of hollow-
bearing  trees  is  listed  as  a  key 
threatening  process  under  state 
and  commonwealth  threatened 
species legislation. 

logs  means 

Hollow 
terrestrial 
woody  habitat  that  includes  the 
accumulation  of  senescent  trees, 
hollow-forming  tree 
limbs  and 
branches  on  the  ground.  Hollow 
logs provide wildlife with foraging, 
shelter, 
roosting  and  nesting 
habitat, and some species require 
the  presence  of  woody  habitat  as 
a  key  limiting  resource  to  their 
survival in an area.

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)and  methodology)  that  minimises 
impacts on native wildlife must be 
prepared and submitted to Council 
for approval. 

c)  Where  Council  approves the  removal  

of  a hollow-bearing tree:

i) 

the removal of the hollow bearing 
trees  shall  be  offset  by  the 
installation  of  nesting  boxes.  The 
size of the nest box is to reflect the 
size and dimensions of the hollow 
removed.   Alternatively, the tree 
hollow  could  be  appropriately 
mounted  on  one  of  the  retained 
trees in a manner where it will not 
pose a risk to life or property; 

ii) 

replacement  ratios  of  nest  boxes 
shall be at a minimum of 2:1 (nest 
boxes: hollows lost);and

iii)  all nesting boxes and hollows shall 
be  mounted  at  least  5  metres 
above the ground.

Note:

Hollow  bearing 
trees  are 
elements  of  forest  structure 
that  are  essential  for  the 
conservation 
hollow 
dependent fauna. 

of 

11.2
Management 
of 
Native 
Vegetation
&
Wildlife 
Habitat 

Figure 11.2.3 - Examples of hollow-
bearing trees. 

Note:

Many species require abundant 
logs  and 
fallen  timber  as 
important components of their 
foraging  and  breeding  habitat. 
Examples  of  these 
include 
threatened  species  such  as 
the  Scarlet  Robin,  and  more 
common small mammal species 
such as the Antechinus.  

Figure  11.2.4  -  Examples  of  an  
Antechinus and a Scarlet Robin.

########Page277

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)     11.3
Permits 
and 
Development 
Applications 
for 
Vegetation 
Management 

11.3  Permits  and  Development  Applications  for  Vegetation             

Management  

Objectives: 

 ■ Preserve  the  amenity,  biodiversity  and  ecology  of  the  City  of  Campbelltown 

through the conservation of vegetation.

 ■ Ensure the safety of the public, infrastructure, buildings and structures and key 

environmental assets is maintained.

 ■ Make clear the process of determining whether or not vegetation management 

works require approval by Council under the Plan (Exemption Criteria).

 ■ Make clear the assessment criteria which the Council will consider in determining 

applications for the approval of vegetation management works.

11.3.1 Exemptions

a)  This section of the Plan does not apply 
to  vegetation  management  carried  out 
for the following purposes:

i) 

Any  dangerous  tree  or  other 
vegetation that present immediate 
imminent  risk  to  human  life  or 
property.

Note:  Council  recommends    that  
documentary  evidence  including 
photographs  of  the    dangerous 
tree  or  other  vegetation 
is 
recorded  prior  to  the  removal  of 
the  vegetation. 

ii)  work  ordinarily  incidental  to  the 
use, operation and management of 
a lawful development;

iii) 

iv) 

the  maintenance  of  garden  and 
(e.g  hedge 
landscaped  areas 
trimming), 
work 
involving  the  removal  or  pruning 
of a tree, as defined in this Part of 
the Plan;

excepting 

compliance with any development  
approved  pursuant  to  Part  5  of 
the  Environmental  Planning  and 
Assessment Act 1979;

v) 

to  protect  or  maintain  existing 

Note: 

This  Part    also  applies  to  any 
vegetation that  is planted as part 
of a  landscaping/master plan for an 
approved  development  regardless 
of the size of the vegetation at the 
time of planting.

tree 

Dangerous 
(as  defined 
under the Plan) means a tree that 
imposes a  threat to a property or 
humans and/or:

 –

 –

  a  substantial  stem 
has 
damage  (e.g.  more  than  50 
percent  cross-section  area 
stem damage);

is 
in  extreme  declining 
health  or  unstable  (e.g. 
more than 50 percent lateral 
roots damaged/unsound); 

 –

has a split trunk.

########Page278

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)public  utilities  (associated  with 
the  provision  of  power 
lines, 
transmission  of  electricity,  water, 
gas,  electronic  communication  or 
the like);

vi)  Crown  maintenance 

pruning 
as  defined  under  AS  4373-2007 
Pruning of Amenity Trees  (refer to 
AS  4373-2007  Pruning  of  Amenity 
Trees    for  more  information  on 
Crown Maintenance Pruning). 

vii) 

to  destroy  or  remove  declared 
noxious  weeds  and  environmental 
weeds.  Refer  to  Council’s  web 
site  at  www.campbelltown.nsw.
gov.au,  for  more  information  on 
noxious  weeds  in  Campbelltown 
LGA.

viii)  to  transplant  field  grown  trees  
propagated  for  sale  as  advanced 
land 
growing 
specimens 
occupied  by  an  approved  plant 
nursery;

on 

ix)  works  on  the  same  land  parcel, 
within  three  (3)  metres  of  the 
foundation  walls  (to  the  edge  of 
the trunk) of an existing approved 
building or in ground pool;

x)  works on trees or other vegetation 
within  a  State  Forest  or  land 
reserved  from  sale  as  a  timber 
reserve  under  the  Forestry  Act 
1916;

xi) 

a  tree  that  Council  is  satisfied 
via  inspection,  arborist  report  or 
photograph  is  dying  or  dead    or 
dangerous;

xii)  a tree which is approved for removal 
as part of a DA approval or Part 5 
approval under the Environmental 
Planning Assessment Act 1979;

xiii)  any  commercial  or  domestic  fruit 

trees; 

xiv)  any  Cocos  Palm  tree  that  is  not 
registered on Council’s Significant 

Note:

Exemptions  Under  Section  11.3.1 
of the Plan do not provide defences 
against  prosecution  under  the 
National  Parks  and  Wildlife  Act 
1974.Additional  Assessment  and/
or  approval  from  the  Office  of 
Environment  and  Heritage  will 
be  required  if  a  tree  or  other 
vegetation:

 –

 –

 –

 –

is 
listed  as  a  protected 
native  plant  under  Schedule 
13  of  the  National  Parks  and 
Wildlife Act;

 is  listed  as  a  threatened 
the  NSW 
species  under 
Threatened 
Species 
Conservation Act;

 is the habitat of a threatened 
species;

forms part of an endangered 
ecological community. 

11.3
Permits 
and 
Development 
Applications 
for 
Vegetation 
Management 

########Page279

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Note: 

The  Significant  Tree  Register 
lists 
  certain  trees  within 
Local 
Campbelltown 
Government  Area  that  have 
been 
classified  as  having 
significant  values  related  to 
their visual, historic, botanical, 
cultural,  commemorative  or 
other significance as defined by 
this Register. 

The  Significant  Tree  Register 
is  available  for  view  from 
Council’s  web  site  at:  www.
campbelltown.nsw.gov.au

Tree Register; and

xv)  works  carried  out  by  Council  or 
its  agents  or  contractors  on  land 
owned  by  or  under  the  care  and 
control of Council.

xvi)  any other vegetation management 
work that is ‘exempt’  under other 
overriding 
such  as 
legislation 
work for the reduction of bushfire 
hazards and the like

xvii)  To  remove  African  Olives  and 
Camphor Laurel  species providing 
that:

 –

 –

 –

The  tree  does  not  form  part  of  a  
curtilage  of  a  heritage  item  or  a 
curtilage of a heritage conversation 
area; 

The tree is not listed on Council’s 
Significant Tree Register; and 

Where  in  doubt,  the  tree  species 
has  been  confirmed  by  a  suitably 
qualified arborist/horticulturist.

Note: Council recommends that documentary 
evidence 
including  photographs  of  the 
trees which identifies by way of reasonable 
landmarks  the  location  of  the  tree  to  be 
undertaken  prior  to  the  removal  of  the 
trees. 

b)  Despite  clause  11.3.1  a)  xvi)  Council’s 
Coordinator  Horticulture 
  &  Open 
Space  shall  be  consulted  prior  to  the 
commencement  of  any  vegetation 
management 
pruning  
undertaken by Council, Council’s agents 
or  contractors  on  land  owned  by  or 
under the care and control of Council.

and/or 

11.3.2  Who  Can  Make  an  Application   
for a Permit or Development application 
for Vegetation Management

a)  A  vegetation  management  application 
(whether for a permit or a DA ) shall be 
made in writing  by:

     11.3
Permits 
and 
Development 
Applications 
for 
Vegetation 
Management 

########Page280

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)i) 

ii) 

the  owner(s)  of  the  property  on 
which the tree/s is located, or 

a person with the owner’s written 
consent;

iii)  an  adjoining  owner  to  prune  only 
overhanging  branches  over  the 
boundaries of  his/her property.  

b)  A  vegetation  management  application 
(whether  for  a  permit  or  a  DA)  on  a 
property  in  a  Strata Title  Plan  shall  be 
made by the owner’s corporation of the 
Body Corporate.

c)  A  vegetation  management  application 
(whether  for  a  permit  or  a  DA)    on  a 
property  in  a  Community  Title  Plan 
shall  be  made  by  the  Neighbourhood 
Association.

11.3.3  Do  I  need  to  lodge  a  Permit 
or  a  Development  Application  for  the 
removal/pruning  of  vegetation  on  my 
property? 

a)  A  permit    shall  be  required  for  the, 
cutting down,pruning or removal of less 
than five (5) trees.

b)  A  development  application  shall  be 
required  for  the  cutting  down  or 
removal of :

i) 

ii) 

Five (5) trees or more; or

other vegetation; or 

iii)  a tree(s) that is listed on Council’s 

Significant Tree Register;

iv) 

v) 

a  tree  and/or  other  vegetation 
located  on 
identified  as 
land 
containing  an  item  of  heritage 
significance  or  within  a  curtilage 
of a heritage item;

a  tree  or  other  vegetation  that  is 
contained upon any land identified 
within  a  Heritage  Conservation 
Area.

c)  Where  a  permit  was  approved  by 
Council  for  the  removal  of  4  trees  or 

11.3
Permits 
and 
Development 
Applications 
for 
Vegetation 
Management 

########Page281

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)less  in  the  last  5  years  on  a  certain 
site,  any  consecutive  applications  for 
the removal of any additional trees on 
the  same  site,  shall  be  by  means  of  a 
development application where:

i) 

 the total number of trees that are 
the subject of the new proposal;

       plus

ii) 

the number of trees that were the 
subject  of  the    previous  permit 
exceeds 4 trees.

11.3.4  Permits  for  Management  of 
Trees

11.3.4.1 
for Permits for Management of Trees

Information  Requirements 

a)  Where the vegetation is causing damage 
to  the  sewer,  and  the  damage  cannot 
be  easily  observed,  the  applicant 
shall  include  written  evidence  from  a 
licensed  plumber  outlining  the  extent 
of  the  problem.  This  shall  be  in  the 
form of a letter with a report from the 
plumber.

b)  Where the vegetation is causing damage 
to a  building footing and structure and 
the structural damage cannot be easily 
observed,  the  applicant  shall  include 
written  evidence  from  a  certified 
structural engineer outlining the extent 
of  the  problem.  This  shall  be  in  the 
form  of  a  letter,  or  a  report  from  the 
structural engineer

c)  Where  the  vegetation  is  causing  an 
adverse  medical  and/or  physiological 
condition to the owner(s)/applicant(s), 
the  applicant  shall  provide  Council 
with  evidence  of  an  ongoing  medical 
condition  from  a  specialised  doctor 
demonstrating  that  their  condition  is 
caused by the subject tree(s). 

d)  A  vegetation  management  permit 
application  for  a  tree  higher  than  ten 
(10)  metres  shall  include  a  written 

     11.3
Permits 
and 
Development 
Applications 
for 
Vegetation 
Management 

########Page282

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)statement/report    from  a  qualified 
arborist  who  has  Certificate  AQF 
Level  3  as  per  AS4373    (as  amended) 
with  public  liability  insurance.  The  
written statement/report shall provide 
information on the status/health of the 
tree  in  accordance  with  Appendix  11( 
Arborist Report) of the Plan.

In 

certain 

Note: 
circumstances,  and 
regardless of the  height of the tree, Council 
may  still  request  the  applicant  to  provide 
an arborist report before making a decision.

e)  Where applicable, Council may require 
information 
supporting 
additional 
for  a  Vegetation  Management  Permit 
application, including the following:

i) 

ii) 

tree survey;

native  flora  and  native  fauna 
impact assessment;

iii) 

an Assessment of Significance; 

iv) 

v) 

details  of  proposed  root  barriers; 
and/or

survey  of  property  boundary 
to  determine  ownership  of  the 
tree(s).

11.3.4.2  Matters  for  Consideration 
when 
for 
Determining 
Management of Trees

Permits 

a)  Council  shall  consider  (but  not  be 
limited to) the following matters when 
determining an application for a  Permit 
for Vegetation  Management under this 
Plan:  

i) 

 –

 –

 –

 –

impact  on  the 
The  potential 
amenity  of the surrounding  built  
and  natural    environments      by   
considering   if   the tree(s) is:

within    close    proximity    from    a  
lawful structure;

structurally sound;

a danger to life or property;

causing  structural  damage  to  a 

11.3
Permits 
and 
Development 
Applications 
for 
Vegetation 
Management 

########Page283

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Note: 

A  Native  Flora  and  Native 
Fauna Assessment Report may 
be required for the removal of 
5  trees  or  more  whether  the 
proposal  is  lodged  to  Council 
under  Part  11  Vegetation  and 
Wildlife Management or as part 
of a DA involving construction 
works.  

     11.3
Permits 
and 
Development 
Applications 
for 
Vegetation 
Management 

 –

 –

 –

 –

ii) 

 –

 –

structure or sewerage;

  health 

causing 
  a  
physiological  condition  to  the 
owner(s)/applicant(s),

  and/or 

stressed  or  diseased  or  suffering 
insect  damage  which  cannot  be 
rectified;

too large for its location;

threatened  species,  population  or 
ecological community;

The    amenity    of    the    occupants  
of    a  property  including  but  not 
limited to matters such as:

solar        access        and        excessive 
overshadowing of living areas; and

poor    health,    such    as    allergies,  
where specific evidence is provided 
by  an  expert 
in  the  relevant 
medical  field  and  a  direct  causal 
link  between  the  ailment  and  the 
species is reasonably established;

iii)  Existing 

(or 

potential 

for) 
vehicular  or  pedestrian  traffic 
hazard in  proximity to a roadway, 
intersection  or  driveway,  where 
pruning  would  be  an  insufficient 
remedy.

b)  Council  shall  consider  the  approval  for 
the pruning of a tree where the branches 
are: 

i) 

ii) 

iii) 

dead or diseased; or 

dangerous  and  overhanging  a 
dwelling or adjoining property; or

causing  loss  of  amenity    to  the  
occupants    of  the  property  or 
adjoining 
including   
  properties 
but   not   limited to matters  such 
as    excessive  overshadowing  and 
solar access  to a dwelling.

c)  The pruning of a tree shall be conducted 
in  accordance  with  the  Australian 
Standard  No.4373-  Pruning  of  Amenity 
Trees (as amended).

########Page284

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)11.3.5  Development  Applications  for 
Vegetation Management

11.3.5.1 
for  Development  Applications 
Vegetation Management

Information  Requirements 
for 

prepared 
the  Office 

a)  A  native  Flora  and  native  Fauna 
in 
Report 
Assessment 
accordance  with 
of 
Environment and Heritage’s Threatened 
Species 
Assessment 
Guidelines  and  Field  Survey  Methods 
is  required  to  be  lodged  with  the 
development application where:

Survey 

and 

i) 

ii) 

 there  are  proposed  direct  or 
indirect 
native 
vegetation  or  other  native  fauna 
habitats;

impacts 

on 

there  is  a  potential  impact  on 
threatened  species,  populations 
ecological 
or 
their  habitats  either  directly  or 
indirectly.

communities 

Note:  Office  of  Environment  and  Heritage’s 
Threatened  Species  Survey  and Assessment 
Guidelines  and  Field  Survey  Methods  are 
available on the Office of Environment and 
Heritage’s website.

Note:  Council  may  vary  the  survey  and 
reporting  requirements  outlined  under 
Clause  11.2.1  b)  in  circumstances  where 
sufficient  information  and  justification  are 
provided.   

b)  As  part  of  the  Native  Flora  and  Native 
Fauna  Assessment,  an  Assessment  of 
Significance  shall  be  undertaken  for 
each  threatened  species,  population 
and ecological community which is likely 
to  be  directly  or  indirectly  impacted, 
  All  Assessments 
by  the  proposal. 
of  Significance  must  be  undertaken 
in  accordance  with  the  Threatened 
Species  Guidelines  –  The  Assessment 
of  Significance  (DECC  2007).    These 
guidelines are available on the Office of 

11.3
Permits 
and 
Development 
Applications 
for 
Vegetation 
Management 

########Page285

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)     11.3
Permits 
and 
Development 
Applications 
for 
Vegetation 
Management 

Environment and Heritage’s website. 

c)  Koala Habitat assessments undertaken as part 
of 11.2.1 b) above shall meet the requirements 
of SEPP 44 and Council’s Guidelines for Koala 
Habitat Assessments  (Refer  to Appendix  4  of 
Volume 1 of the Plan). 

11.3.5.2  Matters  for  Consideration  when 
Determining  Development  applications  for 
vegetation management 

a)  Council shall consider (but not be limited to) 
the  following  matters  when  determining  an 
application for a development application for 
Vegetation management under this Plan:  

i) 

ii) 

Matter  listed  under  Section  11.3.4.2  of 
this Part of the Plan;

The  potential  impact  on  the  amenity 
of  the  surrounding    built    and  natural  
environments   by   considering: 

iii)  whether  the  application  will  have  
significant  impacts  upon  threatened, 
species,  populations  or  ecological 
communities;

iv)  whether  the  application  involved  the 

removal of hollow bearing trees;

if      the  tree(s)    have/has  implications 
for  biodiversity  including  the  outcomes 
of  any  native  flora  and  native  fauna 
of 
assessments 
Significance;

Assessments 

and 

whether  the  vegetation  forms  part 
of  threatened  species,  population  or 
ecological community;

whether  the  vegetation  is  listed  on 
Council’s  Register  of  Significant  Trees; 
and

whether  the  vegetation  is  within  a 
curtilage of a heritage item that is listed 
under Campbelltown LEPs.

v) 

 –

 –

 –

########Page286

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Advisory Note 1: Invalid Reasons for  Vegetation  Management Applications

a)  The  following  shall  not  be  considered  as  valid  reasons  to  remove  or  alter 

vegetation:-

i) 

The shedding of leaves, bark, sticks and fruit into gutters, downpipes, pools, 
onto roofs, vehicles, lawns, or gardens etc.;

ii) 

Birds or bats  droppings on cars;

iii)  Minor termite damage which can be successfully treated by other means;

iv)  To improve street lighting of private property;

11.3
Permits 
and 
Development 
Applications 
for 
Vegetation 
Management 

v) 

To enhance private views;

vi)  To reduce minor shading;

vii)  Minor lifting of driveways and paths by tree roots;

viii)  To erect a fence;

ix)  Bushfire hazard control which has not been approved by Rural or NSW Fire 

Brigades;

x) 

Potential damage to sewer mains unless supported by written expert advice 
and only where reasonable alternatives are not feasible (e.g. relocation or 
encasement of main); and

xi)  Unsubstantiated fears of large trees.

Advisory Note 2: Solar Energy Collectors 

a)  While  Campbelltown  City  Council  promotes  the  use  of  passive  solar  energy, 
Council does not support the removal of sound healthy trees solely to improve 
access to solar energy collectors. Where tree pruning may improve solar capture 
capacity, Council will consider these applications on individual merit.

Figure 11.3.1 - Trees contribute significantly to the environmental and aesthetic values 
of residential neighbourhood.

########Page287

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)essential 
requirements 

Figure  11.3.2  Tree  replacements 
balance 
are 
the 
tree 
removal,  and  maintain  green 
neighbourhoods. 

for 

to 

     11.3
Permits 
and 
Development 
Applications 
for 
Vegetation 
Management 

11.3.6 Tree Replacement 

a)  Council, depending on the circumstances 
of 
vegetation  management 
application, shall require the applicant 
to:

the 

i) 

pay a certain fee to enable Council 
to plant a replacement tree in an 
appropriate location in lieu of the 
removed tree; or

ii) 

plant  a  replacement  tree  on  site 
that is:

 –

 –

 –

of appropriate species;

of  certain  size/height  at  time  of 
planting; and

at the cost of the applicant.

b)  The  species,  size  and  height  of  the 
replacement  tree  shall  be  provided 
to  applicants  in  writing  as  part  of  the 
condition  of  the  development  consent 
or permit.

c)  One  replacement  tree  shall  be  planted 
on  site  within  28  days  of  the  removal 
of  the  subject  tree(s)  for  every  tree 
removed.  In  this  regard,  applicants  
shall provide Council with:

i) 

ii) 

a letter or e-mail advising Council 
of the date of the planting of the 
replacement tree; and

a  copy  of  the  purchase  invoice  of 
the  tree,  illustrating  the  species, 
size and time of purchase.

Note:  Fees  collected  for  tree  replacement 
shall be  used annually by Council to replace 
the  removed  tree(s)  in  an  appropriate 
location  on Australia  National  Tree  Day,  or 
on any other site as decided by Council.

########Page288

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Part 12 
Telecommunication 

Facilities 

########Page289

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
12.1
Application

12.1 Application

This Part sets out controls relating to telecommunication facilities in the Campbelltown 
Local Government Area.

12.2 Background 

New telecommunication facilities require development consent from Council unless they 
are exempted by Commonwealth or State legislation. These exemptions include certain 
‘low impact’ and general infrastructure type facilities, as provided by the Commonwealth 
Telecommunications (Low Impact Facilities) Determination 1997 and State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Infrastructure) 2007. 

All development applications lodged with Council for telecommunication facilities will 
be assessed in accordance with the provisions of this Part. 

Objectives: 

 ■ To minimise the number of telecommunication towers that need to be erected 

within the Campbelltown Local Government Area.

 ■ To  ensure  telecommunication  facilities  are  designed  to  minimise  the  public’s 
exposure  to  electromagnetic  radiation  (EMR)  and  are  restricted  to  locations 
where EMR levels are consistent with or below the nationally adopted exposure 
threshold criteria.

 ■ To  minimise  the  visual  impact  of  telecommunication  facilities  by  encouraging 

innovative design outcomes.

 ■ To  ensure  telecommunications  and  radio-communications 

infrastructure 
are  appropriately  sited  having  regard  to  any  heritage  buildings  or  Heritage 
Conservation Areas.

 ■ To minimise any potential significant adverse amenity impacts upon the locality.

 ■ To facilitate the provision of efficient and reliable telecommunication services 

in the Campbelltown Local Government Area.

12.3 General Requirements

a)  A network masterplan shall be provided 
by the applicant showing the proposal 
in  the  context  of  all  other  similar 
infrastructure types in order to identify 
opportunities for co-location or sharing 
of facilities.

b)  The  applicant  shall  demonstrate  that 
co-location  opportunities  have  been 
adequately  pursued  where  new  stand 

########Page290

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)alone  telecommunication  facilities  are 
proposed. This shall include information 
to demonstrate:

i)  The possibility of sharing equipment, 
via  the  use  of  combiners  or  similar 
technology;

ii)  Existing  towers  and  poles  or  other 
appropriate  structures  should  be 
investigated  for  appropriateness  for 
the sharing of antennas.

c)  Transmitting  roof  top  antennas  and 
towers  should  preferably  be  located  in 
industrial or business zones, rather than 
residential  zones  or  areas  that  include 
dwellings.

d)  Telecommunication  facilities  are  to  be 
sited to avoid locations which are visually 
prominent in the landscape, particularly 
when viewed from the public domain.

e)  For  new  towers  a  photomontage  of  the 
proposal  must  be  submitted  to  assist 
with the assessment of visual impact. 

f)  The  applicant  must  demonstrate  that 
all  reasonable  measures  to  reduce  the 
visual impact of the proposal have been 
examined, including:

i)  Co-location  and  use  of  existing 

structures;

ii)  Innovative  design  to  harmonise  with 

the existing setting;

iii) Use of vegetation for screening;

iv)  Use of materials and finishes consistent 

with surroundings; and

v)  Compact  and  slim  line  construction 

techniques.

g)  No  advertising  signs  shall  be  permitted 

on any telecommunication facilities in:

i)  Industrial areas;

ii)  Rural areas; and

iii) Low-use open space. 

Note:

Under 
CLEP, 
the 
telecommunications  facility 
means:

12.3
General
Requirments

(a)  any part of the infrastructure 
telecommunications 

of  a 
network, or

(b)  any 

line,  cable,  optical 
fibre,  fibre  access  node, 
point 
interconnect 
apparatus, 
equipment, 
antenna, 
tower,  mast, 
duct, 
tunnel, 
dish, 
hole,  pit,  pole  or  other 
structure 
connection 
in 
with  a  telecommunications 
network, or

(c)  any  other  thing  used 

in 
connection  with 
telecommunications 

in 

or 
a 
network.

Figure 12.3.1 - An example of the negative 
visual impact of a tower on neighbouring 
houses.

########Page291

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)12.4 Electromagnetic Radiation

a)  The  applicant 

in  selecting  a  site 
facilities, 

for 
shall 
telecommunication 
demonstrate  to  Council  that  a  precautionary 
approach  has  been  adopted  with  respect  to 
minimising  electromagnetic  radiation  (EMR) 
exposures  to  sensitive  land  uses  such  as 
residential areas, schools, child care centres, 
hospitals, aged care accommodation or areas 
regularly frequented by groups of children.

b)  Where 

EMR 

possible, 

emitting 
telecommunication 
including 
mobile base stations, shall be located in the 
following land use areas:

facilities, 

i)  Industrial areas;

ii)  Rural areas; and

iii) Low-use open space.

c)  Where 

telecommunication 

facilities  are 
proposed within 300 metres of a sensitive land 
use, the applicant shall demonstrate that no 
viable alternative sites are available.

d)  For  all  EMR  emitting  telecommunication 
facilities,  documentary  evidence  is  required 
from a suitably qualified person which analyses 
the  cumulative  effect  of  the  proposal  and 
demonstrates  compliance  with  the  relevant 
Australian exposure standard. 

Figure  12.4.1    -  An  example  of  a 
telecommunication facility tower.

e)  Development 

applications 

for 
telecommunication  facilities  shall 
include 
measures to restrict public access.  Approaches 
to the facility must contain appropriate signs 
warning  of  EMR  and  provide  contact  details 
for the site owner and / or site manager.

12.4
Electromagnetic 
Radiation

########Page292

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)12.5 Landscaping

a)  For stand alone telecommunication facilities, 
a landscape plan must be submitted to Council 
that provides plantings of a suitable scale to 
reduce the visual impact of the proposal, and 
where possible screen the facility from public 
view.

12.6 Heritage

a)  No  telecommunication  facilities  shall 
be  permitted  where  the  heritage 
significance of a heritage item may be 
adversely impacted.

b)  Where  a  telecommunication  facility  is 
proposed  on  a  site  occupied  by  or  in 
the  vicinity  of  a  listed  heritage  item, 
a  Heritage  Impact  Statement  shall  be 
prepared and submitted to Council.

Note: A Heritage Impact Statement  must be 
prepared  by  a  suitably  qualified  person  in 
accordance with the document “Statements 
of  Heritage  Impact”  published  by  the  NSW 
Heritage  Branch  and  available  for  view 
at:www.environment.nsw.gov.au

Figure  12.6.1  -  An  example  of  a 
heritage listed building.

12.5
Landscaping

########Page293

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)This page is intentionally 
left blank. 

########Page294

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
Part 13 Sex Industry 
Premises 

########Page295

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
13.1
Application

13.1 Application

This  part  sets  out  controls  relating  to  sex  services  industry  premises  within  the  City 
of Campbelltown. This part should be read in conjunction with the relevant LEP / IDO 
applying to the site to determine the zoning of the land and the permissibility of any 
proposed sex industry premises.

This plan applies to all sex industry premises. 

Note:

For the purpose of this part, sex industry premises means sex restricted premises or 
sex services premises as defined under the CLEP.

Objectives: 

 ■ To ensure sex industry premises are appropriately located so as to minimise any 
potential adverse social or economic impacts upon the surrounding locality;

 ■ To control the location of sex industry premises to avoid a concentration of these 

facilities in a particular location and to minimise any cumulative impacts; 

 ■ To identify relevant public health and safety standards for sex industry workers 

and their clients; and

 ■  To  provide  appropriate  locational  restrictions  for  any  sex  industry  premises  to 
ensure such premises are located at a reasonable distance away from residential 
areas and other sensitive land uses.

Note:

Note:

Restricted  premises  (as  defined  under 
the  CLEP)  means  premises  that,  due  to 
their  nature,  restrict  access  to  patrons 
or  customers  over  18  years  of  age,  and 
includes sex shops and similar premises, 
but  does  not  include  a  pub,  hotel  or 
motel accommodation, home occupation 
(sex services) or sex services premises.

Sex  services  (as  defined  under 
the  CLEP)  means  sexual  acts  or 
sexual  services  in  exchange  for 
payment.

sex  services  premises  means  a 
brothel, but does not include home 
occupation (sex services).

########Page296

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)13.2
Background

13.2 Background 

All  sex  industry  premises  within  the  Campbelltown  Local  Government  Area  require 
development consent issued under the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979 
(the Act) to legally operate. Campbelltown City Council is the consent authority for the 
assessment and determination of development applications for sex industry premises in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act. 

Council’s role in applying the planning controls for sex industry premises is in addition to 
the regulatory functions of other Government agencies that contribute to the safe and 
legal operations of such premises. This includes:

•  NSW  Department  of  Health  who  are  responsible  for  safe  health  practices  in  any 

workplace;

•  NSW  WorkCover  Authority  regarding  occupational  health  and  safety  issues  in  the 

workplace. 

•  Australian  Federal  Police  and  Commonwealth  Department  of  Immigration  who  are 

responsible for issues of illegal immigrant sex workers; and

•  NSW  Police  Service  with  respect  to  complaints  and  issues  relating  to  criminal 

behaviour.

########Page297

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)13.3
Location 
Requirements

13.3 Location Requirements

13.3.1 General Location Requirements

a)  Sex 

to 

industry  premises 

shall  be 
strategically 
avoid 
located 
unreasonable  exposure  to  sensitive 
land  uses,  and  to  places  where  young 
people ( less than 18 years old) regularly 
gather. Sex industry premises shall not 
adjoin areas that are zoned residential, 
or be clearly visible from them.

b)  Sex industry premises shall not adjoin, 
or  be  clearly  visible  from  schools, 
educational 
for  young 
institutions 
people  (less  than  18  years  old)    or 
places where children and adolescents 
regularly  gather.  This  would  include 
places such as bus stops routinely used 
by school buses.

c)  Sex  industry  premises  shall  not  be 
located  where  they  are  clearly  visible 
to  sensitive  community  groups,  such 
as  places  where  worshippers  regularly 
gather.

d)  Sex industry premises shall be located 
so  as  to  minimise  adverse  impacts 
on  the  amenity  of  the  area,  such  as 
noise  disturbance  and  overlooking  to 
surrounding properties.

e)  Sex 

industry  premises 

shall  be 
adequately  separated  to  avoid  the 
cumulative 
impacts  of  clustering 
which  may  adversely  impact  upon  the 
character of a locality.

f)  Development  applications 

for 

sex 
industry  premises  must  consider  the 
location  requirements  (as  outlined 
above),  both  within  and  outside  the 
local  government  area,  including  sites 
with a current approval to operate as a 
sex industry premises.

g) 

In 
the 

order 

to 

objectives 

adequately 

satisfy  
and  performance 

########Page298

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)requirements  of  this  Part,  applications 
shall  provide  a  locality  plan  (drawn  to 
scale) to demonstrate compliance with 
the  prescribed  separation  distances  as 
outlined below. 

13.3.2  Separation  Distance  to  Sensitive 
land uses 

a)  A  minimum  separation  distance    of 
150  metres    (as  measured  from  any 
point(s)  of  client  access  and  egress  at 
the building proposed to be so used) to 
sensitive  land  uses  and  places  where 
children  and  adolescents  regularly 
gather. This includes child care centres, 
places of worship, community facilities, 
residential  areas,  hospitals,  medical 
centres,  schools,  and  places  regularly 
frequented by children.

13.3.3  Separation  Distances  to  Other  Sex 
Industry Premises

a)  Sex  industry  premises  must  not  be 
located  within  a  150  metre  radius  (as 
measured  from  any  point(s)  of  client 
access  and  egress  at  the  building 
proposed to be so used) of another sex 
industry premises.

13.4 External Design Requirements for Sex industry Premises

Design Requirements 

a)  The  building  design  for  sex  industry 
premises  shall  be  compatible  with  the 
surrounding built form.

b)  The  access  to  sex  industry  premises 
shall  be  discreet  and  discourage  clients 
gathering or waiting on the street. 

c)  The  entrances,  exits  and  external 
appearance  of  sex  industry  premises 
shall  be  well  lit  but  not  to  the  extent 
where it becomes a prominent feature in 
the streetscape. Flashing lights shall not 
be permitted.

d)  Sex  industry  premises  shall  not  display 

13.4
External 
Design 
Requirements 
for Sex 
Industry 
Premises

########Page299

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)13.5
Car Parking

sex  workers,  or  sex  related  products 
from  the  windows,  doors  or  outside  of 
the premises.

e)  Signage  is  limited  to  identification 
of  the  street  address,  which  must  be 
clearly legible visible from the street to 
minimise nuisance to neighbours.

f)  The  paint  finishes  on  external  walls 
of  brothels  should  not  be  such  that 
they  become  a  prominent  feature  in 
the  streetscape  (e.g.  fluorescent  or 
excessively bright colours).

Note:  The  premises  must  also  comply  with 
the  requirements  of  the  Building  Code  of 
Australia and disabled access requirements.

13.5 Car Parking

Design Requirements

a)  Sex services premises  shall provide on-
site  car  parking  at  a  minimum  rate  of 
two (2) car parking spaces per working 
room.

b)  Restricted  premises  shall  provide  on-
site  car  parking  at  a  minimum  rate  of 
one (1) car parking space per 40 square 
metres of gross floor area.

c)  Off street parking and loading shall be 
designed in accordance with Australian 
Standards 2890.1 and 2 (as amended).

d)  Car parks should be well lit and clearly 
legible for staff and customers to easily 
access.

Note:  Council  may  consider  a  variation 
to  this  requirement  where  the  applicant 
can  demonstrate  that  there  is  adequate 
available  on-street  car  parking  or  public 
transport services close to the premises.

########Page300

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)13.6 Waste Disposal and Collection

a)  Operators  are  to  make  their  own 
trade  waste 
arrangements 
collection,  and  ensure 
that  any 
potentially hazardous waste is collected 
by a clinical waste contractor.

for 

b)  Sex  services  premises  shall  make 
provision  for  the  safe  and  convenient 
disposal  of  used  condoms,  soiled 
tissues, gloves and the like.  All waste 
containers  shall  be  kept  in  a  clean 
condition  and  be  stored  and  collected 
from within the site.

c)  Waste disposal operations must comply 
with the NSW Department of Health and 
WorkCover NSW guidelines.

13.7 Sanitary Facilities

a)  The 

following  provisions  apply 
sex-on-premises 

and 

brothels 

to 
establishments:

i)  Premises  must  be  regularly  cleaned 
and kept in a good state of repair at 
all  times.  Care  should  be  taken  to 
regularly clean and disinfect toilets, 
baths,  spas,  showers  and  similar 
fixtures. These are subject to mould 
growth  and  have  the  potential  to 
accumulate  and  spread  fungi,  such 
as tinea;

ii)  Soap  and  single-use  towels  shall  be 
provided  to  all  washbasins  required 
in the premises. Soap dispensers and 
air hand dryers should be used where 
difficulty  in  maintaining  supplies  of 
soap and towels is experienced;

must 

iii) Brothels  and  Sex  on  premises 
provide 
establishments 
facilities  and 
adequate 
sized  hot  water 
appropriately 
systems  (minimum  70ºC)  to  deal 
with  the  on  site  demands  of  linen 

laundry 

13.6
Waste 
Disposal 
and 
Collection 

########Page301

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
13.7
Sanitary 
Facilities 

washing;

iv)  Ensuites  must  be  provided  in  each 
working  room,  including  a  shower, 
toilet and hand basin;

v)  Separate  toilet,  shower,  change 
room,  and  rest  facilities  must  be 
provided for staff in accordance with 
the  Building  Code  of  Australia.  To 
ensure the privacy of the clients and 
workers,  development  applications 
must  demonstrate  that  the  internal 
layout  of  the  premises  is  designed 
so  that  these  facilities  are  in  close 
proximity to client rooms;

sanitary 

facilities 

vi)  A  minimum  of  one  client  room 
with 
located 
and  designed  in  accordance  with 
the  Building  Code  of  Australia  to 
be  suitable  for  use  by  people  with 
disabilities; and

vii) All  required  wash  hand  basins  and 
showers  must  be  provided  with  an 
adequate  supply  of  hot  and  cold 
water.  

########Page302

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)13.8 Health and Safety

a)  Details  are  required  to  demonstrate 
compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
“Health  and  Safety  Guidelines  for 
Brothels  in  NSW”,  published  by  NSW 
Health and WorkCover NSW. This requires 
the provision of proposed management 
practices  to  address  relevant  public 
health and workplace health and safety 
issues  for  the  proposed  development, 
and includes the following items:

i)  Risk  assessment  management  of 

workplace  hazards;

ii)  Provision of information, instruction, 
training  and  supervision  needed  to 
ensure  the  health  and  safety  of  all 
employees;

iii) Provision  and  use  of  personal 

protective equipment;

iv)  Monitoring  of  workers  health  to 
transmissible 
sexually 

prevent 
infections;

v)  Workplace drug and alcohol policy;

vi)  Accident reporting;

vii) First aid procedures; and

viii) Management  of  Public  Health 

complaints.

13.8
Health 
and 
Safety 

########Page303

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)13.9
Council
Registration

13.9 Council Registration

a)  The 

following 

brothels 

to 
establishments:

  provisions  apply 
sex-on-premises 

and 

i)  All  operating  premises  must  be 
registered  with  Council  under  the 
provisions  of  the  Local  Government 
Act  1993 
for  ongoing  health 
surveillance services;

ii)  A  condition  of  any  development 
consent  issued  will  require  written 
notification to Council of the person 
responsible 
the 
premises (proprietor / licensee); and

operating 

for 

iii) A  condition  of  any  development 
consent 
issued  will  require  an 
environmental  health  inspection  by 
Council  prior  to  commencement  of 
use.

########Page304

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Part 14 Parking
 of Heavy Vehicles 
on Residential, Rural 
and Environmental 
Protection Land 

########Page305

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
14.1
Application

14.1 Application

This Part regulates the parking of heavy vehicles on areas zoned: R2,R3,R4,R5,RU2,E2,E3 
and E4 excluding:

i)   vehicles that can be operated under a NSW C- Car class licence or equivalent; 

and

ii)  a  caravan/mobile  home  capable  of  being  registered  under  the  Road  Transport 
Act 2013 and Road Transport (Vehicle Registration) 2007 legislation, providing the 
vehicle is for personal use ( i.e not for commercial purposes or monetary gain). 

Zone Acronyms used under this Part 

Residential Zones:

R2 Low Density Residential: R2     

R3 Medium Density Residential: R3  

R4 High Density Residential: R4

R5 Large Lot Residential: R5 

Rural Zones:

RU2 Rural Landscape: RU2

Environmental Protection Zones: 

E3 Environmental Management: E3 

E4 Environmental Living: E4  

14.2 Background -  Classification of Heavy Vehicles 

For the purpose of this Part, heavy vehicles comprise Heavy Vehicles Type 1, and Heavy  
Vehicles Type 2, as defined in Table 14.2.1 below.

Table 14.2.1 Heavy Vehicle Types.

Heavy Vehicle Type

Description of Class

Heavy Vehicle Type 1

Means any vehicle that has a gross vehicle mass (GVM) 
not greater than 10.5 tonnes or a length not exceeding 
9.0 metres. 

Note:  Length  and  weight  limits  are  inclusive  of  any 
associated trailers.

Heavy Vehicle Type 2

Means any vehicle that:

i)  has a gross vehicle mass (GVM) greater than 10.5 

tonnes; or

ii)  has a length greater than 9.0 metres; or

iii) is a prime mover.

########Page306

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)14.3 Number of Heavy Vehicles - Permissibility by Zoning and Site 
Area

Objectives:

 ■ To  regulate  the  number  of    heavy  vehicles  parked  within    areas  zoned  for 
residential, environmental protection and rural purposes within Campbelltown 
Local Government Area. 

 ■ To  maintain  the  amenity  and  scenic  quality  of  residential,  environmentaly 

sensitive and rural areas within Campbelltown Local Government Area.

14.3
Number of
Heavy Vehicles 
-
Permissibility 
by
Zone 

Design Requirements

a)  The maximum number of heavy vehicles 
able to be parked on an allotment shall 
be in accordance with Table 14.3.1.

b)  Council  may  consider  development   
applications  to  park  heavy  vehicles  on 
private land that does not comply  with 
the  requirements  of  this  Plan  on  their 
individual merits. 

c)  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision 
of  this  Plan,  heavy  vehicles  shall 
not  be  permitted  to  be  parked  on 
allotments that consists of strata titled 
development, attached dwellings, semi 
detached  dwellings,  dual  occupancies 
(attached 
detached),  multi 
dwellings  and  residential  flat  buildings  
developments  within  areas  zoned  R2, 
R3 and R4.

and 

Figure  14.3.1  An  example  of  a  Heavy  Vehicle 
Type 1

Figure  14.3.2  An  example  of  a 
Heavy Vehicle Type 2

########Page307

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)14.3
Number of
Heavy
Vehicles -
Permissibility 
by
Zone 

Table  14.3.1  Maximum  number  of  heavy  vehicles  and  their  combinations  that  are 
permissible on an allotment per site area and zoning.

Zoning and 
site area Site 
Area

Maximum Number of 
heavy vehicles per 
allotment   

Options 

Heavy 
Vehicle Type 
1

Heavy 
Vehicle Type 
2

R2,R3,R4, R5 

E3  E4,  RU2 
for a site with  
an  area  of  1 
hectare 
or 
less 

E3,  E4,  RU2 
for 
site 
a 
with    an  area 
greater  than 
1 hectare and  
less  than  5 
hectares 

RU2  and  E3 
For  a 
site 
with  an  area 
greater  than 
5 hectares 

Notes: 

1

1

2

3

1

1

0

2

1

0

2

3

Option 1

or

Option 2

Option 1

or

Option 2

Option 1

or

Option 2

or

Option 3

0

0

1

0

1

2

1

0

a)  Despite the note in Table 14.2.1, Each Type 1 heavy vehicle on land zoned rural 
or an environmental zone may have a maximum of one associated trailer  of 
which the total vehicle combination shall not exceed 19.0 metres in length. 

b)  Each prime mover of a Type 2 vehicle shall have a maximum of two associated 
trailers providing the total length in combination does not exceed 26.0 metres.

c)  For the purpose of point b) above, a  B-Double constitutes two trailers.

d)  Despite  the  above  points,  a),  b)  &  c)  trailers  shall  not  be  permitted  on 

residential zones.

########Page308

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)14.4
General 
Requirements

14.4 General Requirements

Design Requirements

a)  The  operator  of  the  heavy  vehicle(s) 
parked on the allotment shall reside on 
the allotment.

b)  The vehicle(s)  shall be parked wholly 
on  the  property  and  behind  the 
property boundary.

c) 

In  the  case  of  an  E3,  E4  or  RU2  Zone  
heavy  vehicles  shall  be  parked  behind 
the  building  alignment  and  no  closer 
than  5  metres  from  any  side  or  rear  
property boundary

d)  The  heavy  vehicle(s)  shall  be  able 
to  enter  into  the  property  in  a  single 
movement.

e)  Refrigeration  or  any  other  auxiliary 
motors  attached  to  the  vehicle(s)  or 
trailer(s) shall not be operated on the 
property.

f)  No food shall be permitted to be stored 
within  the  heavy  vehicle(s)  whilst 
parked within the private property.

g)  Heavy  vehicle(s)  shall  not  be  parked 
or stored on a lawn or any landscaped 
area.

h)  Heavy vehicles  on land zoned R2,R3,R4 
or R5 shall be parked on a hard surface 
driveway.

i)  Heavy  vehicles 

  on 

land  zoned 
E3,  E4  or  RU2  shall  be  parked  and 
manoeuvred on an all weather  surface 
driveway/hardstand area with suitable 
treatment to prevent material entering 
stormwater  systems,water  courses  or 
roadways.

j)  No  storage  of  any  waste,  noxious, 
dangerous  and/or  hazardous  materials 
shall be permitted to be stored within 
the  heavy  vehicle(s)  while  parking 
within the property.

k)  Prior    to  the  parking  of  any    heavy 

########Page309

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)14.4
General 
Requirements

vehicle on land, where kerb and gutter 
are in existence, a heavy vehicle access 
crossing is required to be approved by 
Council and constructed by the owner/
operator of the heavy vehicle.

l)  Maintenance of heavy vehicle(s)  within 
property  boundaries  on  R2,R3  and 
R4  zones    shall  be  limited  to  minor 
servicing only which includes: 

i)  Greasing;

ii)  Changing tyres; and

iii) Washing  the  exterior  cabin  (not 

degreasing).

m)  For the purpose of clause 14.4 l) Minor 

servicing  does not include:

i)  Tune-ups;

ii)  Degreasing;

iii) Oil changing;

iv)  Mechanical repairs;

v)  Panel beating;         

vi)  Spray painting; or

vii) Any  works  requiring  the  use  of  a 
grinder or any other power tool that 
may  cause  adverse  impacts  on  the 
amenity of the neighbourhood.

n) 

In  addition  to  section  14.4  l),  minor 
servicing  on  land  zoned  E3,  E4  or  RU2  
shall  also  include  oil  changing  and 
minor mechanical repairs.

o)  Property 

owners 

provide  
shall 
appropriate 
landscaping  to  visually 
screen the heavy vehicle(s) to maintain 
a  high  quality  streetscape,  wherever 
possible.

########Page310

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Part 15
Animal Boarding 
or Training 
Establishments 

########Page311

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
  
15.1
Application

15.1 Application

This Part applies to animal boarding or training establishment in areas zoned IN1, E3 and 
RU2

or 

boarding 

Animal 
training 
(as  defined  under 
establishment 
the  CLEP)  means  a  building  or  place 
used  for  the  breeding,  boarding, 
training, keeping or caring of animals 
for  commercial  purposes  (other  than 
for  the  agistment  of  horses),  and 
includes  any  associated  riding  school 
or ancillary veterinary hospital.

Zone Acronyms

INI General Industrial : IN1   

E3 Environmental Management: E3 

RU2 Rural Landscape: RU2 

Note:

the  CLEP, 

the  minimum 
Under 
qualifying site area for animal boarding 
or  training  establishments  in  E3  and 
RU2 Zones is 5 hectares. 

Note:

All  development  applications  for  animal  boarding  or  training  establishments  that 
involves  companion  animal  breeding  shall  be  assessed  giving  due  consideration  to 
the Animal Welfare Code of Practice – Breeding Dogs and Cats available from NSW 
Industry and Investment website at: http://www.dpi.nsw.gov.au

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure that animal boarding or training establishments do not significantly impact 

on the amenity of adjoining residents. 

 ■ Ensure  that  land  selected  for  an  animal  boarding  or  training  establishment  is 

capable of supporting that use.

 ■ Ensure that the location, size and internal layout of animal boarding or training 
establishments takes into account the surrounding land uses and potential land 
uses.

 ■ Ensure    that  animal  boarding  or  training  establishments    incorporate    best  
practice design and management practices, in order to minimise any potential 
adverse impacts upon adjoining landholdings and to provide for the satisfactory 
welfare of animals kept within the establishment.

 ■ Ensure that animal boarding or training establishments are designed to incorporate 

humane and industry best practice animal accommodation.

 ■ To minimise the potential for land use conflict between animal breeding, boarding 

and training establishments and other uses in the vicinity.

 ■ To  minimise  the  impact  of  wastes  from  the  animal  boarding  or  training 

establishment on water and air quality.

 ■ To prevent contamination of surface and ground waters.

########Page312

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)15.2  General  Requirements  for  Animal  Boarding  or  Training 
Establishments 

15.2.1 Site Requirements

a)  Animal 

or 

boarding 

training 
establishments  shall    not  be  located 
on  land  that  is  a  bush  fire  prone  land 
unless  appropriate  measures  to  the 
satisfaction  of  Council  and  Rural  Fire 
services  are implemented. 

15.2.2 Setbacks  

a)  Animal 

or 

boarding 

training 
establishments  on  land  zoned  E3  and 
RU2 shall be set back a minimum of 250 
meters for any dwelling not associated 
with the facility.

b)  Not  withstanding 

the 

requirement 
under  Clause  15.2.2  a)  above,  animal 
boarding  or  training  establishments  on 
land  zoned  E3  and  RU2  shall  comply 
with  the  setback  requirements  under 
Part  4  Rural  Residential  Development 
and  Ancillary  Rural  Development 
Structures.  

c)  Animal 

or 

boarding 

training 
establishments on land zoned IN1 shall 
comply  with  the  setback  requirements 
under Part 7 Industrial development.

15.2.3 Isolation facility

a)  An  isolation  facility  shall  be  provided 
on  site  in  order  to  segregate  animals 
which have an infectious disease. 

15.2.4 Noise impacts 

a)  An  acoustic  impact  assessment  report 
shall be required to be submitted with a 
development application for any animal 
boarding or training establishment.

b)  Buildings 

shall  be  designed  and 
constructed to minimise noise transfer 
to neighbouring properties.

15.2.5 Environmental  impacts

a)  A  waste  water  treatment  plan  shall 
be  included  with  the  development 

15.2
General 
Requirements 
for Animal 
Boarding 
or Training 
Establishments 

########Page313

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)15.2
General 
Requirements 
for Animal 
Boarding 
or Training 
Establishments

application  to  ensure  that  the  land  is 
capable of supporting the proposed use.

b)  Stormwater  runoff  shall  be  controlled 
so  that  it  does  not  pose  a  risk  to  any 
natural water course.

c)  A  waste  water  management  plan  shall  
be  submitted  with  the  development 
application.

d)  All    animal    boarding    establishments  
are to  contain  all  waste  water  as  far  
as practicable.

e)  Runoff  from  shed  roofs,  access  tracks 
and  hard  stand  is  to  be  effectively 
collected and stored on-site.

f)  Details of any proposed sediment basins 
or dams are to be submitted to Council 
with the development application.

15.2.6 landscaping

a)  Appropriate landscaping and vegetative 
screening shall be employed to minimise 
visual  impact  and  contribute  to  the 
elimination of air and noise pollution

15.2.7 Waste Management 

a)  A  waste  management  plan  shall  be 
prepared  and  submitted  to  Council  as 
part  of  any  development  application 
for  an  animal  boarding  or  training 
establishment.

b)  A vermin control plan shall be prepared 
and submitted to Council as part of any 
development application for an animal 
boarding or training establishment.

c)  All solid wastes shall to be disposed of 

appropriately. 

d)  Any  deceased    animals  shall  to  be 
removed 
  from  the  premises  and 
disposed    of  at  a  Council  approved 
garbage depot.

e)  No dead animal disposal shall occur on-
site, whether it be by burning or burial.

########Page314

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Part 16 

Advertising and 
Signage 

########Page315

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
16.1
Application

16.1 Application

This  Part  sets  out  controls  for  all  signage  proposals  within  Campbelltown  LGA  ,except 
signage that is classified as exempt or complying development under State Environmental 
Planning  Policy  (Exempt  and  Complying  Development  Codes)  2008;  and  any  signage 
undertaken by Campbelltown City Council.

Note: CLEP stands for Campbelltown Local Environmental Plan 2015

Note:

The  following  signs  are  types  of  business  identification  signs  that  are  exempt 
development if designed and constructed in accordance with the State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008 and:

 – Wall sign;

 – Fascia sign;

 – Under awning sign;

 – Top hamper sign;

 – Window sign; 

The  following  signs  are  types  of  business  identification  signs  and  are  complying 
development if designed and constructed in accordance with the State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008 and:

 – projecting wall sign; 

 – freestanding pylon and directory  board signs

State  Environmental  Planning  Policy  (Exempt  and  Complying  Development  Codes) 
2008 is available for view at www.legislation.nsw.gov.au.

Objectives: 

 ■ Encourage signage that provides identification and information about land uses 
of premises in a manner that complements the design of the building on which 
it is displayed on and the streetscape.

 ■ Ensure signage that  contributes positively  to the appearance of the building, 
structure  or  place  by  encouraging  coordinated  signage  of  high-quality  design 
and materials.

 ■ Discourage the proliferation of signs and advertising structures that collectively 

becomes meaningless and cluttered.

 ■ Ensure    signs  and  advertising  structures  that  do  not  detract  from  the  level 
of  safety  for  drivers,  cyclists  and  pedestrians  by  obstructing  sight  lines  and 
distracting road users.

 ■ Ensure that the scale of the sign and advertising structures are appropriate to 

the size of the building and its surroundings.

 ■ Ensure that signs and advertisements contribute to a high quality public domain.

########Page316

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)16.2
Types of Signs 
&
Definitions

16.2 Types of Signs and Definitions 

Some of the signage types referred to in this 
section are shown in Figure 16.3.1 below. 

Note:

Advertisement  has  the  same  meaning 
as  in  the  Environmental  Protection  & 
Assessment  Act  1979:  a  sign,  notice, 
device  or  representation  in  the  nature 
of  an  advertisement  visible  from  any 
public  place  or  public  reserve  or  from 
any navigable water.

in 

Advertising  structure  has  the  same 
meaning  as 
the  Environmental 
Protection  &  Assessment  Act  1979:  a 
structure  used  or  to  be  used  principally 
for the display of an advertisement.

1.  Bill board Sign

2.  Roof or Sky sign 

3.  Flush mounted wall sign

4.  Vertical projecting wall sign

5.  Horizontal projecting wall sign

6.  Above awning sign

7.  Fascia sign

8.  Under awning sign

9.  Top hamper sign 

10. Window sign

11. Freestanding pylon and   
Directory Board sign

Figure 16.3.1 - Types of signs 

########Page317

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)      
16.2
Types of Signs 
&
Definitions

Note:

Building 
identification  sign  (as 
defined  under  the  CLEP)  means 
a  sign  that  identifies  or  names 
a  building  and  that  may  include 
the name of a building, the street 
name  and  number  of  a  building, 
and a logo or other symbol but does 
not include general advertising of 
products, goods or services.

Note:

Business  identification  sign  (  as 
defined  under  the  CLEP)  means  a 
sign: 

(a)  that indicates:

i) the  name  of  the  person  or 

business, and

ii)  the nature of the business 
carried  on  by  the  person 
at  the  premises  or  place 
is 
at  which  the  sign 
displayed, and

(b)  that may include the address 
of the premises or place and 
a logo or other symbol that 
identifies the business,

but  that  does  not  contain  any 
advertising  relating  to  a  person 
who does not carry on business at 
the premises or place.

The following definitions shall apply for the 
purpose of this Part:

‘A’ Frame Sign ( also known as a sandwich 
board ) means a portable, freestanding sign 
consisting of either two advertising boards 
supporting each other in an ‘A’ configuration, 
or one advertising board supported by one 
or more posts in an ‘A’ configuration. 

Above  awning  sign  means  a  sign  that 
is  located  above  an  awning  or  veranda, 
attached to the awning and/or wall, but is 
contained  entirely  below  the  roofline  and 
not  protruding  beyond  the  extent  of  the 
awning or veranda (but does not include a 
projecting wall sign).

Banner or flag sign means a piece of fabric 
supported  on  one  or  two  sides  by  poles 
or  ties  and  allowed  to  move  freely,  but 
not  including  national,  state,  regional  or 
aboriginal flags. 

Billboard  sign  means  an  advertisement 
supported by one or more columns or post 
which  stands  independent  of  any  building 
and/or structure and which does not relate 
to the use of the site to which it is attached.  

Bunting  means  a  string  of  lightweight 
coloured material or plastic secured at both 
ends but allowed to move freely.

Building  identification  sign  has  the  same 
meaning as in the CLEP (see note).

Business  identification  sign  as  the  same 
meaning as in the CLEP (see note).

Canopy  fascia  sign  means  a  sign  that 
is    located  on  the  fascia  of  the  structure 
erected over the pumps at a petrol station.

Corporate  identification  means  building 
colour,  decoration,  symbols,  logos  and  the 
like that attach a building use with a readily 
identifiable corporate brand 

Day time  means the time between sunrise 
and sun set, excluding twilight periods.

Digital  Signs  -  Any  sign  that  uses  digital 
technology  to  display  bright,  high  quality 

########Page318

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Note:

Illuminance has the same meaning 
as  contained 
in  AS/NZS  1158-
2005:  the  physical  measure  of 
illumination. It is the luminous flux 
arriving at a surface divided by the 
area  of  the  illuminated  surface. 
Unit:  lux  (lx).  The  term  includes 
‘Horizontal illuminance’ (the value 
of  illuminance  on  a  designated 
ground 
horizontal 
level)  and  ‘Vertical  illuminance’ 
(the  value  of  illuminance  on  a 
designated  vertical  plane  at  a 
height of 1.5m above ground level. 
Where  the  vertical  illuminance 
is  considered  in  the  situation  of 
potentially  obtrusive  light  at  a 
property  boundary  it  is  referred 
to  as  environmental 
vertical 
illuminance).

plane 

at 

the 

Luminance has the same meaning 
in  AS/NZS  1158-
as  contained 
quantity 
physical 
2005: 
corresponding to the brightness of 
a  surface  (e.g.  a  lamp,  luminaire 
or  reflecting  material  such  as  the 
road surface) when viewed from a 
specified  direction.  Unit:  candela 
per square metre (cd/ sqm). 

Note:

A digital sign and/or an illuminated 
sign  may  take  the  form  of  any 
permissible  sign  under  this  plan 
(i.e fascia sign or a wall sign) and 
shall  comply  with  all  the  relevant 
development  controls  under  this 
part of the Plan. 

electronic  images  which  are  uploaded  and 
changed using a computer and modem via a 
secure  network. A  central  feature  of  these 
devices  is  the  use  of  Light  Emitting  Diode 
(LED)  technology  allowing  luminance  to  be 
controlled  and  adjusted  automatically  and 
includes  Electronic  Static  Displays  (ESDs), 
Variable  Message  Signs  (VMS)  and  Dynamic 
Electronic Displays (DEDs) 

Dwell  duration  means  the  period  of  time 
that content on a sign remains static without 
any movement.

Dynamic Electronic Displays (DEDs) means 
any  sign  that  displays  animations,  videos, 
flashing  images,  and  have  active  display 
changes.  DEDs  signs,    either  permanent  or 
portable, including any signs which contain 
any  portion  of  video  and/or  animated 
content,  that  face  a  road  reserve  and  are 
visible  to  road  users  are  prohibited.  DEDs 
are a type of digital signs.

Electronic  Static  Displays  (ESDs)    means 
signs that display static images only, which 
are presented successively at set intervals. 
They  do  not  contain  or  imply  motion  such 
as  vertical  or  horizontal  scrolling,  fade, 
dissolve  or  animation  within  the  message 
itself  and  do  not  have  any  movement  of 
any  part  of  the  advertising  structure  or 
surrounds. ESDs are a type of digital signs.

Fascia  sign  means  a  sign  that  is  attached 
flush to the existing fascia of the awning of 
a  building,  which  does  not  project  above, 
below  or  beyond  the  awning  of  a  building 
over a footpath.

Flashing sign means a sign that is illuminated 
at  frequent  intervals  of    3  seconds  or  less 
by either an internal or external light, and 
whether  or  not  included  in  any  other  type 
of sign.

Flush  mounted  wall  sign    means  a  flat 
mounted  or  painted  sign  attached  to  the 
exterior front or side wall of a building and 
does not project more than 100mm from the 
wall surface.

16.2
Types of Signs 
&
Definitions

########Page319

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)16.2
Types of Signs 
&
Definitions

Freestanding  pylon  and  Directory  Board  sign 
means  a  sign  which  is  supported  by  one  or  more 
columns,  uprights  or  braces  fixed  to  the  ground 
and which is not directly attached to any building 
or other structure.

General advertising means signage that does not 
relate to the use of the land/building to which it 
is attached.

Illuminated  sign  means  any  sign  illuminated  by 
an  artificial  sources  such  as    fluorescent  and/or 
incandescent bulbs.

Inflatable sign means a sign that is located on an 
inflatable structure such as a balloon or blimp being 
of a temporary nature and used for the purpose of 
displaying information about a business, product, 
local event and/or attraction. 

Moving sign means a sign that is  capable of moving 
by any source of power, whether or not included in 
any other class of sign.

Portable or movable signs means an advertisement 
attached to the body of a vehicle or trailer which 
is principally designed for placement in a publicly 
viewable location.

Poster sign means a temporary sign that is usually 
in  the  form  of  a  paper  or  lightweight  cardboard 
or foam core board ‘poster’ used for the purposes 
of  displaying  information  about  a  local  event  or 
attraction.

Projecting  wall  sign  is  a  sign  that  projects  from 
the  exterior  wall  of  an  existing  building  but  not 
protruding beyond the roadside edge of the awning 
or above the roofline of a building. 

Roof or sky sign means a sign that is erected on or 
above  the  parapet  of  a  building  that  is  wholly  or 
partly supported by the building.

sign,  notice,  device, 
Signage  means  any 
representation  or  advertisement  that  advertises 
or  promotes  any  goods,  services  or  events  and 
any structure or vessel that is principally designed 
for, or that is used for, the display of signage, and 
includes any of the following:

i)  an advertising structure,

ii)  a building identification sign,

########Page320

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)iii) a business identification sign,

but does not include a traffic sign or traffic control 
facilities.

Temporary  sign  means  a  sign    which  is  used  to 
promote  an  event,  celebration  etc  organised  by 
a community group, not for profit organisation or 
government  body  (including  Council)  that  has  a 
limited time of display.

Top hamper sign means a sign that is attached to 
the transom of a doorway or display window of a 
building.

Twilight  means  the  time  between  sunrise  and 
dawn  in  the  morning  and  sunset  and  dusk  in  the 
evening. 

Under awning sign means a sign that is suspended 
below the existing awning of a building 

Variable  Message  Sign  (VMS)  means  a  sign  that 
display  electronic  text  messages  and  have  the 
capacity  for graphical displays. VMS are a type of 
digital signs.

Wall  sign    means  a  flat  mounted  or  painted  sign 
attached  to  the  exterior  front  or  side  wall  of  a 
building  and  does  not  project  more  than  100mm 
from the wall surface.

Window  sign  means  a  sign  that  is    painted  or 
displayed inside a window of a building.

16.2
Types of Signs 
&
Definitions

########Page321

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)16.3
Relationship 
to other 
Environmental 
Planning 
Instruments 

16.3  Relationship  to  other  Environmental  Planning  Instruments, 
Australian Standards, State Polices and Guidelines. 

16.3.1  State  Environmental  planning 
Policy  No  64  -  Advertising  and  Signage 
(SEPP 64)

a)  Development applications for all forms 

of signage shall comply with SEPP 64. 

16.3.2 State Environmental Planning Policy 
(Exempt  and  Complying  Development 
Codes) 2008 

a)  Development  controls  under  this  part 
shall  apply  to  signs  and  advertisement 
that  are  not  considered  exempt  or 
complying  development  under    State 
Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt 
and  Complying  Development  Codes) 
2008.

16.3.3  Transport  Corridor  Outdoor 
Advertising and Signage Guidelines

a)  This  Guideline 

is  required  to  be 
considered  where  signage  is  proposed 
to  be  located  on  Transport  Corridor 
land as identified under SEPP 64.

16.3.4 Australian Standards (AS)

a)  Some  AS  contain  provisions  relating 
to  the  construction  and  external 
illumination  devices    for  signage  that 
need to be complied with. The relevant 
AS  include:

Note: 

is 

Where  signs  are  erected  without 
prior development consent (where 
consent 
required),  Council 
may  commence  action  under  the 
provisions  of  the  Environmental 
Planning  and  Assessment  Act 
1979,  requiring  removal  of  the 
signs, issuing fines or commencing 
court action.

Note: 

State  Environmental  Planning 
Policy  (Exempt  and  Complying 
Development Codes) 2008  specifies 
certain types of signs as exempt or 
complying  development.  Exempt 
development  does  not  require 
development 
from 
Council.  Complying  development 
requires a complying development 
certificate  (CDC)  to  be  issued  by 
an accredited certifier or council, 
prior  to  work  undertaken  by  the 
applicant.

consent 

i)  AS  4282  -  Control  of  the  Obtrusive 

Note: 

Effects of Outdoor Lighting;

ii)  AS/NZS 

1170.0:2002, 

Structural 
Design  Actions,  Part  0:General 
Principles;

Signs  that  may  fall  outside  the 
type of signs defined under Section 
16.2 Types of Signs and Definitions 
will be assessed on their merits. 

iii) AS/NZS 

1170.2:2011,Structural 
Design Actions, Part 2: Wind Actions; 
and

iv)  AS  4852.1-2009  Variable  Message 

Signs

########Page322

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)16.4 General Requirements - Advertising and Signage

16.4.1  Restrictions 

a)  The  following  types  of  advertising  and 
signage  shall  not  be  permissible  within 
the Campbelltown LGA:

i)  Above awning signs;

ii)  Banner  or  flag  signs  in  zones  other 
than  business  and  industrial  zones 
including bunting;

Note:

16.4
General 
Requirements 

Advertising 
and 
Signage 

development 

All 
applications 
for  sings  needs  to  comply  with  
Schedule 1 of  SEPP 64,  available 
form  NSW  legislation  website  at: 
www.legislation.nsw.gov.au

iii) Inflatable signs;

iv)  Portable or movable signs;

v)  Moving signs;

vi)  ‘A frame’ signs  on public land;

vii) Roof or sky signs; 

viii) Posters on poles or other structures 

in public places;

ix)  Flashing signs; 

x)  Dynamic Electronic Displays that are 

visible to drivers; and

xi)  Billboard Sign.

16.4.2  Design and location

a)  Signage  attached  to  buildings  shall  be 
designed,  located,  scaled  and  sized 
having  regard  to  the  architectural 
style,features  scale  and  design  of  the 
facades of the building.

b)  Signage shall not  dominate landscaped 

and public domain areas.

c)  Free standing signage shall be designed 
to  have  regard  to  the  size,  height  and 
scale  of  nearby  buildings  and  their 
architectural elements.

d)  Signage  shall  not  protrude  above  any 

parapet or eaves.

e)  All signage shall be designed to minimise 

opportunities for graffiti artists.

f)  Signs shall be constructed of a material 

########Page323

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)that is of high quality and durable.

g)  Signage  shall  not  contain  reflective 

materials, colours and finishes.

h)  Signage  shall  not  cause  any  nuisance  to 
nearby occupants as a result of glare or 
light spillage.

16.4.3  Public Safety

a)  Signs and their supporting structures shall 
be  structurally  sound  and  constructed 
in  manner  to  maintain  pedestrian  and 
traffic safety.

b)  Signs shall be designed and erected so to:

i)  not 

to  compromise  driver  and 

pedestrian safety;

ii)  avoid confusion with road traffic signs 

and signals;

iii) not obscure a road hazard,  oncoming 

vehicles, pedestrians; and

iv)  avoid  advertising  messages,  designs 
or  bright  lighting  that  may  distract 
motorists.

16.4.4  Contents

a)  Signs that contain wording in a language 
other  than  English  shall  have  an  English 
translation of that wording to a minimum 
font  size  of  50%  of  the  non-English 
word/s.

16.4.5. Maintenance of signs

a)  All  signs  shall  be  maintained  to  a  high 
including  any  advertising 

standard, 
surface, structure and finish. 

Note:  Council  may  direct  the  owner  of  an 
advertising  sign  that  is  unsightly,  unsafe  or 
likely  to  threaten  public  safety,  to  take  any 
necessary  action  to  remove  or  repair  the 
sign/structure. 

16.4.6. Illumination

a) 

Illuminated signs shall:

i)  have 

its  means  of 

illumination, 

16.4
General 
Requirements 

Advertising 
and 
Signage  

########Page324

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)including  any  associated  cables, 
concealed  or  integrated  within  the 
frame of the sign;and

ii)  not be animated, flashing or moving.

16.4.7 Development Application for Signs

a)  All  development  applications  for  a 
signage  shall  include  photomontages 
of  the  sign  and  its  relationship  to 
road  environment, 
the  adjacent 
particularly  traffic  control  devices  or 
areas  such  as  junctions/intersections 
and curves or crests.

16.4.8 Digital Signs

a)  Digital  Signs  shall  meet  the  following 

criteria:

i)  Advertisements  shall  not  include 
videos  or  animations  or  animated 
effects  such  as  ‘fade’,  ‘zoom’  or 
‘fly-in’.

ii)  The display screen shall not be split 
to  display  multiple  advertisements 
on the one electronic  display.

iii) Each  change  of  content    shall  be 
(i.e. 

instantaneously 

completed 
within 0.1 of a second).

iv)  Each  content  shall  have  a  self 
contained  message  that  is  simple, 
effective  and  easily  understood  at 
a glance.

v)  Sequential  messages 

shall  be 

avoided.

vi)  Where changing content is proposed  
Dwell times for image display are:

 –   10  seconds  for  areas  where  the 
speed limit is below 80km/h; and

 – 25  seconds  for  areas  where  the 
speed  limit  is  80km/h  and  over. 
Longer  dwell 
times  may  be 
required  by  Council  depending  on 
the surrounding environment.

vii) In  the  event  of  a  malfunction  or 

16.4
General 
Requirements 

Advertising 
and 
Signage  

########Page325

Note:

There  has  been  a  recent 
increase  in  the  use  of  digital 
signs.  This  has  necessitated 
a  need  to  provide  additional 
controls  for  these  types  of 
signs  within  the  Plan.  Council 
may    consider  the  provision 
of digital signs at any location 
where  a  standard  static  sign 
is  considered  appropriate, 
providing  the  digital  sign  is 
managed in such a way that it 
does not create any additional 
road 
concerns  or 
negatively impact on adjoining 
residents. 

safety 

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Note:

A  digital  sign  shall    generally 
level  of 
exhibit  the  same 
brightness 
lighting 
in  all 
conditions,  by  maintaining  a 
consistent  ratio  between  the 
ambient 
light  (illuminance) 
and  light  emitted  by  the  sign 
(luminance).

This  allows  the  sign  to  be 
easily  read  and  reduces  the 
time taken for drivers to view 
its content.

Due to the fast rate of change 
in  ambient  light  during  dusk 
and  dawn  periods,  particular 
attention needs to be given to 
the  luminance  levels  that  are 
output  during  these  periods 
to  ensure  that  a  consistent 
brightness 
apparent 
is 
  This  removes 
maintained. 
the  risk  that  a  driver  will  be 
distracted  by  changing  sign 
brightness.

failure  of  either  the  advertising 
copy  display,  or  hardware/system/
software  the  device  must  display 
(default to) a blank black screen.

the 

level  of 

viii)  All  digital signs must be equipped 
with a sensor to measure the ambient 
surrounding 
light 
environment  and  adjust  the  sign 
luminance  levels  accordingly.  Such 
control systems shall be programmed 
to adopt a set of minimum levels of 
stepped  dimming  to  suit  a  range  of 
ambient light levels.

ix)  Luminance  levels  of  digital  signs 
shall  comply  with  the  requirements 
in Table 16.1.

x)  Luminance levels of illuminated signs 
shall  comply  with  the  requirements 
in Table 16.2. 

xi)  Renewable energy sources should be 
considered to power digital signs.

xii) A  digital  sign  shall  not  be  located 
higher  than  3  metres  from  ground 
floor level (existing).

xiii)   In  addition  to  the  requirement 
under Section 16.4.7 of this part, the  
development application for a digital 
sign shall include:

 – details of the location of any other, 
electronic  signs  within  200  metres 
of the site;

 – details  of  the  electronic  system  to 
be  used  including  intensity  control 
limits  and  methods  (including  light 
sensor) and error detection;

 – details  of  the  proposed  dwell  time 

for any non-static images;

 – details  of  the  power  supply  and 

cables.

16.4
General 
Requirements 

Advertising 
and 
Signage  

########Page326

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Table 16.1 Maximum Luminance levels for Digital Signs 

Lighting  conditions 

Areas  1 and 2

Area 3

Day Time Luminance

6000 cd/sqm

6000 cd/sqm

Morning and Evening

700 cd/sqm

500 cd/sqm

Twilight  and  Inclement 
Weather

Night

350 cd/sqm

zero  to 150* 

* Zero to 150, luminance level within Area 3, at Council’s discretion and subject to the 
location of the sign in relation to the residential properties and surrounding environments.

Source: Based on the information provided under the Draft Transport Corridor Outdoor 
Advertising and Signage Guidelines – November 2015

Table 16.2  Maximum Allowable Daytime Luminance of  Illuminated Signs ( Not 
Digital Signs)

Illuminated Area (sqm) 

Areas  1

Area 2

Area 3

less or equal to 0.5

2900 cd/sqm

Greater  than  0.5  and 
less than or equal 2.0

2300cd/sqm

2000

1600

1000 cd/sqm

800 cd/sqm

Greater  than  2.0  and 
less than or equal  5.0

2000cd/sqm

1200

Greater  than  5.0  and 
less than or equal 10

Greater than 10.0

1500

1200

1000

800

600

600

400

Source: Based on the information provided under the Draft Transport Corridor Outdoor 
Advertising and Signage Guidelines – November 2015

Areas 1, 2 and 3 under Tables 16.1 and 16.2 above 

Area  1  covers  areas  with  generally  high  off-street  ambient  lighting  e.g.  some  major 
shopping/commercial  centres  with  a  significant  number  of  off-street  illuminated 
advertising devices and lights.(eg Blaxland Road)

Area  2  covers  areas  with  generally  medium  off-street  ambient  lighting  e.g.  small  to 
medium shopping/ commercial centres (eg Queen Street) .

Area 3 covers areas with generally low levels of off- street ambient lighting e.g. rural 
and residential areas.

16.4
General 
Requirements 

Advertising 
and 
Signage  

########Page327

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)16.5
Signs within 
Residential,  
Rural 
&
Environmental 
Protection 
Zones 

16.5 Signs within Residential,  Rural and Environmental Protection 
Zones 

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure that the amenity of residential, environmental protection and rural areas 
is not adversely affected by the provision of outdoor signage for non-residential 
uses.

Design Requirements

a)  Only 

the 

following 

types  of  business 
identification  signs  shall  be  permissible 
on  land  zoned  for  residential,  rural  and 
environmental  protection  zones  (subject  to 
Council’s consent):

i)  wall signs;

ii)  window signs;and

iii) freestanding  pylon  and  directory  board 

signs;

16.5.1 Wall Signs 

a)  A wall sign shall:

i)    not    result  in  more  than  4  business 
identification  signs  of  this  type  for  the 
building (which may refer to more than 1 
business within the building);

ii)  be  attached  to  the  building  in  which  the 
business  identified  in  the  sign  is  located; 
and

iii)  not cover any window, door or architectural 

feature

b)  Wall  signs  within  residential,  rural  and 
environmental  protection  zones  associated 
with a home business, home industry or home 
occupation shall be:

i)  illuminated only during approved hours of 

operation;

ii)  not reflective;

iii) not  to  exceed  a  height  greater  than  2.0 
metres above natural ground level;and

iv)  not larger than 1.5sqm in area.

c)  Wall  signs  within 

residential, 

rural  or 

########Page328

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)environmental  protection  zones  for  uses  other 
than  a  home  business,  home  industry  or  home 
occupation shall be:

i)  illuminated  only  during  approved  hours  of 

operation;

ii)  not reflective;

iii) not  exceeding    a  height  greater  than  2.5 
metres above natural ground level  and not be 
larger than 3.0sqm in area;

16.5.2  Window Signs

a)  Windows sign shall not be illuminated

b)  Window  signs  within  residential,  rural  and 
environmental  protection  zones  associated 
with  a  home  business,  home  industry  or  home 
occupation shall be:

i)  restricted to one sign per property; 

ii)  not cover more than 25% of the surface of the 
window  in  which  it  is  displayed  on  or  6sqm, 
whichever is the lesser.

16.5.3 Freestanding pylon and directory board 
signs 

a)  Freestanding  pylon  and  directory  board  signs 
within  residential,  rural  and  environmental 
protection  zones  associated  with  a  home 
business,  home  industry  or  home  occupation 
shall be:

i)  restricted to one sign per property;

ii)  not exceed 1sqm in area;

iii) not exceed 2 metres in height; and

iv)  not be illuminated

b)  Freestanding  pylon  and  directory  board  signs 
within  residential,  rural  and  environmental 
protection  zones  associated  with  a  use  other 
than  a  home  business,  home  industry  or  home 
occupation shall:

i)  not exceed 1.5sqm in area;

ii)  not exceed 3 metres in height; and

iii) not result in more than one such freestanding 
sign  for  each  street  frontage  of  the  lot  on 
which the development is located.

16.5
Signs within 
Residential,  
Rural 
&
Environmental 
Protection 
Zones 

########Page329

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)16.6
Signs
within 
Business, 
Industrial 
Zones and 
Special 
purpose zones

16.6  Signs within Business, Industrial and Special Purpose Zones

Objectives:

 ■ Reduce signage clutter throughout Business centres.

 ■ Provide for the orderly display of signs.

 ■ Encourage the use of sign themes in commercial areas.

 ■ Ensure that advertising signs complement the existing streetscape; and

 ■ Ensure that signs are designed to minimise impacts on residential areas.

16.6.1  Number of signs per premises

a)  Not withstanding any other requirement of this part, 
the total number of signs installed on any building 
elevation facing a public space shall not exceed 6.

16.6.2 Building Identification Signs 

a)  Building identification signs shall:

i)   be limited to one sign per street frontage.

ii)   incorporate a maximum area of 3sqm.

iii)  contain only the name of buildings; and

iv)  not be located higher than the parapet or eaves 
of the building, or 15 metres above ground level 
(existing) whichever is lower. 

16.6.3 Business identification signs 

a)  Corporate colour schemes associated with business 
identification  shall  only  be  permitted  where  the 
consent authority is satisfied that the colour scheme 
is compatible with the desired future character of 
the area  and will not detract from the appearance 
of the building and its surroundings.

16.6.3.1 Wall Signs 

a)  Only  one  wall  sign  per  building  elevation  shall  be 

permitted.

b)  A wall sign shall:

i)   not  result in more than 4 business identification 
signs of this type for the building (which may refer 
to more than 1 business within the building);

########Page330

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)ii)  be  attached  to  the  building  in  which  the 
business identified in the sign is located;

iii) where located on land zoned  for commercial 
purposes, excluding areas zoned B5 under the 
CLEP, not be more than 6sqm in area or 20% of 
the building elevation, whichever is the lesser;

iv)  where  located  on  land  zoned  for  industrial 
zone or zone B5  under the CELP, not be more 
than  18sqm  in  area  or  20%  of  the  building 
elevation, whichever is the lesser;

v)  not  project  beyond  the  parapet  or  eaves  of 

the building to which it is attached; and

vi)   not cover any window, door or architectural 

feature

vii) Council may consider varying the size of a wall 
sign  within  commercial  and  industrial  areas, 
where a wall sign area has been incorporated 
as  part  of  the  architectural  design  of  the 
building  and  where  Council  is  of  the  opinion 
that  the proposed wall sign is of appropriate 
scale  in  relation  to  the  building,  streetscape 
and the surrounding environment.

16.6.3.2 Fascia signs

a)  Fascia signs shall:

i)  be securely fixed to the fascia;

ii)  not be more than 2sqm in area;

iii) not project below, above or beyond the sides 

of the fascia;

iv)  be  at  least  600mm  behind  the  alignment  of 

any kerb within the adjacent road; and

v)  not be illuminated.

16.6.3.3 Under awning signs

a)  Under awning signs shall:

i)  not result in more than one sign of this type 

for each ground floor tenancy;

ii)  not be more than 2 sqm in area;

iii) be  erected  with  the  lower  edge  at  least  2.6 

metres above ground level (existing);

iv)  be suspended at right angles to the building;

16.6
Signs
within 
Business, 
Industrial 
Zones and 
Special 
purpose zones

########Page331

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)16.6
Signs
within 
Business, 
Industrial 
Zones and 
Special 
purpose zones

v)  not project beyond the awning fascia;

vi)  be at least 600mm behind the edge of the 

kerb;

vii) include  a  separation  distance  of  3  metres 

from other under awning signs

16.6.3.4 Top hamper signs

a)  Top hamper signs shall:

i)  not result in more than one sign of this type 

for each ground floor tenancy;

ii)  not be more than 3sqm in area; 

iii) not be more than 600mm in height, 

iv)  not be more than 100mm in depth;

v)  be erected with the lower edge at least 2.1 
metres above ground level (existing), and

vi)  not  project  below  the  transom  of  any 

doorway or display window.

16.6.3.5 Window Signs

a)  Window  signs  shall  not  cover  more  than  30% 
of  the  surface  of  the  window  in  which  it  is 
displayed or 8sqm, whichever is the lesser.

16.6.3.6 Projecting wall signs

a)  Projecting wall sings shall:

i)  not  result 

in  more  than  4  business 
identification  signs  of  this  type  for  the 
building  (which  may  refer  to  more  than  1 
business within the building) so long as only 
one sign is visible on each elevation of the 
building;

ii)  not project beyond the parapet or eaves of 

the building to which it is attached;

iii) where located in a business zone:

 – not  project  more 

than  0.9  metres 
horizontally  from  the  facade  of  the 
building;and

 – be no more than 1.8sqm in area; 

iv)  where  located  in  an    industrial  or  special 

purpose zone:

 – not  project  more 

than  1.5  metres 
horizontally  from  the  facade  of  the 

########Page332

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)building;;

 – be no more than 3sqm in area.

16.6.3.7  Freestanding  pylon  and  directory 
board signs 

a)  Freestanding  pylon  and  directory  board  signs 

shall:

i)  not result in more than one such freestanding 
sign  for  each  street  frontage  of  the  lot  on 
which the development is located; 

ii)  not exceed a height of 8 metres, above natural 
ground level to the highest point of the sign/
structure;

iii) not have an area for the sign of more than 8sqm 
where  the  lot  is  occupied  by  one  commercial 
tenant;

iv)  where  the  building  is  occupied  by  more  than 
one tenant, the minimum area  of 8sqm shall 
be increased by 1 additional square meter per 
additional occupancy  to a maximum of 18sqm;

v)  be  only  permitted  where  the  building  has  a 
minimum  10  metre  building  setback  from  the 
primary road frontage.

16.6.3.8 Banner or flag sign

a)  Banner or flags signs shall:

i)  not  result  in  more  than  one  sign  of  this  type 

per site;

ii)  not exceed a height of 8 metres above natural 
ground level to the highest point of the sign/
structure;

iii) not be more than 3sqm in area;

iv)  be  erected  with  the  lower  edge  at  least    2.6 
metres  above footpath pavement level and 5 
metres above vehicle pavement level.

16.6.3.9 ‘A’ Frame Sign 

a)  ‘A’ Frame Sign signs shall:

i)  not  result  in  more  than  one  sign  of  this  type 

per occupancy;

ii)  not located on footpath or public land;and

iii) not be more than 0.8sqm in area.

16.6
Signs
within 
Business, 
Industrial 
Zones and 
Special 
purpose zones

########Page333

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)16.7
Signs 
on 
Mixed Use 
Residential 
Development

16.7  Signs  on mixed use residential development

This section applies to signs on mixed use development, where the upper levels consist 
of residential dwellings (shop top housing or residential apartment buildings) regardless 
of the zoning of the land.

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure that advertising signs complement the existing streetscape; and

 ■ Ensure  that  signs  are  designed  to  minimise  impacts  on  the  occupants  of 

residential dwellings located at higher levels. 

a)  Signs  on    the  commercial  component 
of  the  building  shall  comply  with 
section 16.6 of this part  as it applies to 
business zones.

b)  No advertisement shall be permitted  on 
any  part of the residential  component 
of the building. 

c)  Signs shall not impact negatively on the 
residential  amenity  of  the  occupants 
of  the  residential  component  of  the 
building.

d)  Illuminated 

signs 

shall  only  be 
permitted  where  they  do  not  impact 
on  the  residential  amenity  of  the 
occupants of the residential dwellings . 

########Page334

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)16.8 Signs on Heritage items and within Heritage Conservation Areas  

Objectives:

 ■  Minimise the impact of signs on the heritage significance of heritage items and  

heritage conservation areas.

 ■ Ensure that the size, colour, location and design of signs do not dominate the 
architectural elements  of heritage items and heritage conservation areas. 

a)  Advertising  signs  on  heritage  items 
and within heritage conservation areas  
shall be  in harmony with the character 
of  the  heritage  item  or  place  and  its 
heritage setting.

b)  Only  the  following  types  of  signs  shall 
be  permissible  on  land  occupied  by  a 
heritage item or on land located within 
a  heritage  conservation  area  (subject 
to Council’s consent):

i)  wall sign (only on buildings that are 

not heritage listed);

ii)  top hamper sign;

iii) fascia sign;

iv)  under awning sign; and

v)  window sign.

c)  The number of signs is limited to those 
necessary  to  display  the  name  of  the 
business  and/or  proprietor  and  the 
name of the building (if applicable).

16.8.1 Wall Signs

a)  Wall signs shall:

i)  not be constructed or installed on a 

heritage item;

ii)  not exceed 2sqm in area;

iii) be limited to one sign per building; 

iv)   not exceed a height of 600mm; and

v)  not  project  beyond  the  parapet  or 
eaves  of  the  building  to  which  it  is 
attached,  but  in  any  case  shall  not 
project more than 100mm;

16.8

Signs on 
Heritage 
Items
&
within
Heritage 
Conservation 
Areas  

########Page335

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)16.8
Signs on 
Heritage 
Items
&
within
Heritage 
Conservation 
Areas  

16.8.2 Top hamper Signs

a)  A top hamper sign shall:

i)  not be more than 2.5sqm in area;

ii)  not be more than 600mm in height;

iii) not  project  below  the  transom  of 

any doorway;

iv)  not  project  below  the  top  of  the 

doorway or display window;

v)  be  permitted  on  heritage  buildings 
only  where  a  specified  advertising 
space has been provided within the 
building fabric;

vi)  be flush to the external face of the 
elevation,  but  in  any  case  shall  not 
project more than 100mm; and

vii) not cover any window or architectural 

features of the building;and 

viii) not be illuminated

16.8.3 Fascias Signs

a)  Fascias signs shall:

i)  be  permitted  on  heritage  buildings 
where  a  specified  advertising  space 
the 
has  been  provided  within 
building fabric;

ii)  be permitted providing architectural 
features  are  not  painted  over  or 
obscured;and

iii)  not  project  above  or  beyond  the 

edges of the facia.

16.8.4 Under Awning Signs

a)  Under awning sign shall:

i)  be  permitted  on  heritage  buildings 
where  a  specified  advertising  space 
has  been  provided  within 
the 
building fabric;

ii)  have  a  minimum  clearance  of  2.6 

metres above the footpath;

iii) not  be  more  than  2.5  metres  in 

length; 

########Page336

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)iv)  be  erected  with  the  lower  edge  at 
least 2.6 metres above ground level 
(existing);

v)  be suspended at right angles to the 

building; and

vi)  not  project  beyond  the  awning 

fascia.

16.8.5 Window Signs 

a)  Window signs shall:

i)  not  dominate  or  clutter  the  shop 

front window;and

ii)  not  cover  more  than  20%  of  the 
surface of the window in which it is 
displayed or 6sqm, whichever is the 
lesser.

16.8
Signs on 
Heritage 
Items
&
within
Heritage 
Conservation 
Areas  

########Page337

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)16.9
Service Station 
Signs  

16.9  Service Station Signs

Given  the  location  of  service/petrol  stations  within  various  land  use  zones  within  the 
City, specific controls are required. This Section sets out the requirements for  signs on 
service stations across the Campbelltown LGA.

Objectives:

 ■ Allow service stations the opportunity to advertise,  whilst minimising any visual 

impact.

a)  Freestanding  pylon  signs  on  sites  used 
as  a  service  station  (including  petrol 
price  pole  signs  and  advertising  pole 
signs) shall:

i)  be 

limited  to  one  per  street 

frontage;

ii)  be  no  more  than  6.0  metres  in 

height,

iii) not exceed a total area of 8.0 square 

metres ;

iv)  contain  only  corporate  identity  and 

pricing details; and

v)  be  located  adjacent  to  vehicular 

entrance to the site.

b)  Canopy  fascia  signs  shall  be  limited  to 
trade name and corporate identification 
only.

c) 

Illuminated  signs  and  floodlighting  of 
work  and  service  areas  shall  not  be 
permitted  for  use  outside  of  approved 
trading hours. 

########Page338

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Part 17
Boarding Houses 

########Page339

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016) 
 
   
17.1
Application

17.1 Application

This Part of the Plan sets out development controls relating to boarding houses including 
newly proposed boarding houses or the conversion or adaptation of an existing building 
to a boarding house within the Campbelltown LGA. 

Note:

All boarding houses shall be subject to annual fire safety and compliance inspections 
by Council.

The  Boarding  House  Act  2012  (BH  Act)  sets  out  registration  requirements  and 
occupancy principles for ‘registrable boarding houses’ (as defined under the  BH Act) 
to ensure delivery of quality accommodation services and protection of the wellbeing 
and living amenity of residents. 

The BH Act is available for view the NSW legislation website at:

www.legislation.nsw.gov.au

Note:

This Part  shall  be read in conjunction 
with  the  provisions  of  the  State 
Environmental 
Policy 
(Affordable  Rental  Housing)  2009  (ARH 
SEPP).

Planning 

Note: 

Under  the  CLEP,  and  the  ARH  SEPP  
boarding houses are permissible within 
the  following zones: 

•  R2 Low Density Residential;

•  R3 Medium Density Residential;

Building Code of Australia 

•  R4 High Density Residential; 

Boarding  houses  may  be  classified  as 
Class  1b  or  Class  3  under  the  BCA, 
depending  on  the  number  of  residents. 
Class  3  buildings  are  subject  to  more 
stringent  fire  safety  requirements.  For 
further information refer to the BCA.

•  B1 Neighbourhood Centre

•  B2 Local Centre; and

•  B4 Mixed Use;

Fig 17.1 A boarding house in Campbelltown 

########Page340

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)17.2
General 
Requirements 
for Boarding 
Houses

17.2 General Requirements for Boarding Houses

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure that boarding houses are of  high quality design and consistent with the 

desired future character of the locality;

 ■ Ensure that boarding houses do not  adversely impact on the residential amenity 

of adjoining residents.

 ■ Provide  appropriate  levels  of  amenity  (internal  and  external)  for  residents 

within boarding houses. 

 ■ Ensure  that  boarding  houses  are  designed  to  provide  sufficient  communal 
facilities for the occupants in terms of communal indoor and outdoor areas, 
kitchen and laundry facilities.

17.2.1 Site and Size Requirements

Note

a)  Boarding  houses  located  within  low 
density  residential  areas  shall  only  be 
located  on  sites  with  a  minimum  area 
of  700sqm  and  a  road  frontage  of  15 
metres.

b)  Boarding  houses  located  within  land 
zoned R2 Low Density Residential zone  
under the CELP or  land zoned Zone 2(b) 
Residential B Zone under LEP 2002 shall 
have a maximum of 8 boarding rooms. 

c)  Boarding houses shall not be erected on 

battle-axe allotment.

d)  Boarding houses shall only be permitted 
on  a  site  where  no  part  of  the 
allotment  is  within  50  metres  of  the 
commencement  of  the  head  of  a  cul-
de-sac to which vehicular access  to the 
site is obtained.

e)  Boarding  houses  shall  only  be  allowed 
on  streets  that  provide  for  on  street 
parking.

f)  Boarding 

within 

houses 

local,  
neighbourhood  centres  and  mixed  use 
areas  are  not  permitted  to  be  located 
at the ground floor level.

For the purpose of this Part:

Low and medium density residential 
areas  shall  be  taken  to  mean 
any  land  zoned  R2  Low  Density 
Residential,  R3  Medium  Density 
Residential,  under  the  CLEP,  or 
where  relevant,  any  land  zoned 
Zone 2(b) Residential B Zone under 
LEP 2002. 

High density residential areas  shall 
be taken to mean  any land zoned 
R4  High  Density  Residential  under 
the  CLEP,  or  where  relevant  any 
land  where  residential  apartment 
buildings are permissible under LEP 
2002.

Local  and  neighbourhood  centres 
shall  be  taken  to  mean  any  land 
zoned B1 Neighbourhood Centre or 
B2 Local Centre under the CLEP or 
where  relevant  areas  zoned  Zone 
3(c)  Neighbourhood  Business  Zone 
under LEP 2002.

Mixed  use  areas  shall  be  taken  to 
mean any land zoned B4  Mixed Use 
under  the  CLEP,  or  where  relevant 
areas  zoned  Zone  10  (a)  Regional 
Comprehensive  Centre  Zone  under 
LEP 2002. 

########Page341

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Boarding Houses (as defined under 
the CLEP) means a building that:

i)  is  wholly  or  partly  let  in 

lodgings, and

ii)  provides 

lodgers  with  a 
principal  place  of  residence 
for 3 months or more, and

iii) may  have  shared  facilities, 
such  as  a  communal  living 
room,  bathroom,  kitchen  or 
laundry, and

iv)  has  rooms,  some  or  all  of 
which  may  have  private 
kitchen 
bathroom 
and 
facilities,  that  accommodate 
one or more lodgers,

but does not include backpackers’ 
accommodation,  a  group  home, 
hotel  or  motel  accommodation, 
seniors  housing  or  a  serviced 
apartment.

17.2.2 Streetscape

Design Requirements

a)  The  design  of  new  purpose  built 
buildings 
facade 
(including 
treatments,  building  massing,  roof 
features, 
design 
shall 
setbacks  and 
complement 
the 
surrounding    development,  and  the 
desired character of the locality.

landscaping) 

scale  of 

entrance 

and 

the 

b)  New  buildings  on  corner  sites  shall 
incorporate  facade  treatments  that 
address  both  street  frontages  and 
achieve  positive  articulation 
in 
building design.

c)  Clothes  lines  and    air  conditioning 
units shall be screened and not visible 
by  the  public    when  viewed  from  a 
public area.

17.2.3  Setbacks  -  Low  and  medium 
density Residential Areas

a)  A  boarding  house  development  shall 

be set back a minimum of:

i)  5.5 metres from the primary street 

boundary;    

ii)  3 metres from the secondary street 

boundary; 

iii) 0.9 metres from any side boundary 

at the ground level;  

iv)  1.5 metres from any side boundary 
for  all  levels  above  the  ground 
level;     

v)  5 metres from the rear boundary at 

the ground level;  and  

vi)  10 metres from the rear boundary 
for  all  levels  above  ground  level 
land  zoned  Zone  2(b) 
within 
Residential B Zone under LEP 2002 
or land zoned R2 under the CLEP.

vii)  6.5 metres from the rear boundary 
for  all  levels  above  ground  level 
within  land  zoned  R3  under  the 

17.2
General 
Requirements 
for Boarding 
Houses

########Page342

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)CLEP.

b)  Notwithstanding    17.2.3  a)    i)  and  ii),  any 
garage shall be setback a minimum of 6 metres 
from any street boundary. 

17.2.4  Setbacks  -  (High  density  residential 
areas) 

a)  A  boarding  house  development    within  high 
density  residential  areas  shall  be  setback  a 
minimum of:

i)  5.5 metres from any street boundary; and

ii)  6 metres from any other boundary.

17.2.5 Setbacks - (Local and neighbourhood 
centres

a)  Boarding  houses 

land  within 
neighbourhood  and  local  centres  shall  be 
setback a minimum of:

located  on 

i)  3 metres from the primary street boundary; 

ii)  3  metres  from  the  secondary  street 

boundary;

iii) 3  metres  from  any  side  boundary  where 
it  adjoins  residential  properties  or  public 
open space;

iv)  0.9 metres from the side boundary in any 

other case;

v)  6  metres  from  the  rear  boundary  where 
it  adjoins  residential  properties  or  public 
open space;

vi)    3  metres    from  the  rear  boundary  in  any 

other case.

b)  Despite  clause  17.2.5  a)  iv)  above,  boarding 
houses  shall  be  permitted  to  be  built  on  the 
side  boundary  where  in  Council’s  opinion 
the  proposed  development  is  considered  as 
a  continuation  of  an  adjacent  development 
within the same section of the streetscape.

c)  Despite  clause  17.2.5  a)  vi),  reduced  rear 

setbacks shall be considered on merits.

17.2.6 Setbacks - (Mixed Use areas) 

a)  Boarding houses within mixed use areas shall 

17.2

General 
Requirements 
for Boarding 
Houses

########Page343

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)17.2
General 
Requirements 
for Boarding 
Houses

be setback a minimum of:

i)  zero metres from any street boundary; and

ii)  6 metres from any other boundary.

17.2.7 Shared facilities 

a)  Where 

shared  bathroom 

facilities  are 
proposed,  they  shall  be  provided  at  the 
following rates:

i)  A minimum of 1 bath or shower for each 10 

occupants or part thereof;and

ii)   1 closet pan  and  washbasin  with  hot and 
cold  running  water  for  each  10  occupants 
or part thereof.

b)  Where  communal  kitchen 

facilities  are 
proposed,  they  shall  be  provided  at  the 
following rates:

i)  a  minimum  area  of  8sqm  for  up  to  10 
occupants  and  1sqm  additional  area  for 
every 2 occupants thereof.

c)  Laundry and clothes drying facilities are to be 

provided at a rate of:

i)  1  washing  machine  and  washing  tub  for 
every 10 occupants or part thereof; plus

ii)  1  clothes  dryer  for  every  10  occupants  or 

part thereof and;

iii)  1 fixed clothesline of at least 30 metres for 

every 10 occupants or part thereof.

17.2.8 Indoor Communal living areas

a) 

Indoor communal living areas shall be provided 
with a minimum dimension of 3 metres and a 
minimum total area of 20 square metres or 1.2 
square metres/resident, whichever is greater.

17.2.9 Solar Access

a)  Dwellings  on  adjoining  properties  are  to 
receive  a  minimum  of  3  hours  sunlight  in 
habitable  rooms  and  in  at  least  50%  of  the 
private  open  space  between  9:00am  and 
3:00pm on 21 June.

b)  Where 

adjoining  development 
currently  receives  less  sunlight  than  this 

existing 

########Page344

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)requirement, this should not be unreasonably 
reduced. In order to demonstrate what can be 
achieved,  shadow  diagrams  may  be  required 
with the development application. 

17.2.10 Site Services Boarding Houses

a)  The  location,  design  and  construction  of 
utility  services  shall  satisfy  requirements  of 
the relevant servicing authority and Council.

b)  Adequate  provision  shall  be  made  available 
for all essential services (i.e water, sewerage, 
electricity,  gas,  telephone, 
internet  and 
stormwater drainage).

c)  All site services shall be placed underground.

d)  All  communication  dishes,  antennae  and 
the  like  shall  be  located  to  minimise  visual 
prominence.

17.2.11 Visual Privacy

a)  No  window  of  a  habitable  room  or  balcony 
shall  directly  face  a  window  of  another 
habitable  room,  balcony  or  private  open 
space  of  another  dwelling  located  within  6 
metres  of  the  proposed  window  or  balcony 
unless appropriately screened.  

b)  Notwithstanding Clause 3.4.3.2 a) any window 
of  a  living  room  located  on  an  upper  level 
shall:

i)  be  offset  by  2  metres  to  limit  views 
between windows and balconies; or    

ii)  have  a  sill  height  1.7  metres  above  the 

floor level; or                      

iii) be splayed to avoid direct views  between 

windows; or   

iv)  have  fixed  translucent  glazing  in  any  part 
of  the  window  within  1.7  metres  of  the 
floor level.

c)  Notwithstanding 17.2.11 a), a balcony will only 
be  considered  where  the  private  open  space 
area  of  any  adjacent  dwelling  is  screened 
from view.

17.2

General 
Requirements 
for Boarding 
Houses

########Page345

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)17.2
General 
Requirements 
for Boarding 
Houses

17.2.12 Signage

a)  Signage  shall  be  limited  to  a  maximum  of  1 
sign per building, detailing only the name and 
address of the premises and contact details of 
the managing agent. 

b)  Signage must be affixed to the front elevation 

and not to the fence.

c)  The sign shall have a maximum area of 0.25sqm  

and a maximum height of 0.5 metres.

d)  Signage shall be non-illuminated.

17.2.12 Private Open Space

a)  A minimum of one private open space area of 
20 square metres with a minimum dimension 
of  3  metres  shall  to  be  provided  for  use  by 
lodgers.

b)  Where  the  boarding  house  is  not  within 
walking  distance  (400  metres)  to  a  park  it 
should provide 30 square metres of communal 
private open space.

########Page346

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)17.3 Car Parking and Access   

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure  that  the  location  and  design  of  driveways  and  parking  areas,  waste 
access and collection areas are practical, easily maintained, convenient, safe 
and suitably landscaped.

 ■ Ensure  that  the  surrounding  street  network  and  intersections  continue  to 

operate safely and effectively.

 ■ Minimise parking arising from boarding houses on local streets.

17.3
Car Parking 
and Access

17.3.1 Car Parking

Design Requirements

a)  Car parking areas shall be setback 
a minimum of 3 metres from the 
front boundary and any secondary 
boundary.

b)  Off  street  parking  and  loading 
shall  be  designed  in  accordance 
Standards 
with 
2890  (as  amended),  except  as 
otherwise provided by this Plan.

Australian 

c)  No  required  car  parking  space 
shall  be  designed  in  a  stacked 
configuration.

d)  A  boarding  house    shall  have  a 
maximum of one ingress and one 
egress  driveway.

e)  The minimum width of a driveway 
serving a boarding house shall be 
3 metres.

f)  Driveways shall :

i)  be located a minimum distance 
of  6  metres  from  the  tangent 
point  of  any  unsignalled 
intersection; and

ii)  be sealed. 

Note: 
In  circumstances  where  an 
intersection  is  controlled  by  lights, 
a  roundabout  or  the  like,  applicants 
are  requested  to  contact  Council  for 

Note:

Clause 29 (2)  of the ARH SEPP states:

(2)  A consent authority must not refuse 
consent  to  development  to  which  this 
Division applies on any of the following 
grounds:

‘(e)  parking

if:

(i)    in  the  case  of  development  in  an 
accessible  area—at  least  0.2  parking 
spaces  are  provided  for  each  boarding 
room, and

(ii)    in  the  case  of  development  not  in 
an accessible area—at least 0.4 parking 
spaces  are  provided  for  each  boarding 
room, and

(iii)    in  the  case  of  any  development—
not  more  than  1  parking  space  is 
provided  for  each  person  employed  in 
connection  with  the  development  and 
who is resident on site,’. 

Additionally,  clause  30  (h)  of  the  ARH 
SEPP states:

‘(h)  at least one parking space will be 
provided for a bicycle, and one will be 
provided  for  a  motorcycle,  for  every  5 
boarding rooms’.

########Page347

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)17.3
Car Parking 
and Access

specific requirements, as the location of the 
driveway may vary. 

g)  Sufficient  space  shall  be  provided  on 
site so that no vehicle shall be required 
to  make  more  than  a  three-point  turn 
to exit the site in a forward direction.

h)  All  car  parking  spaces  shall  be  line 
marked and delineated with appropriate 
signage and pavement marking.

i)  Car parking areas shall be designed and 
sized so that only one three-point turn 
is required for exiting/entering the site 
in a forward direction.

17.3.2  Access 
Disabilities

for  People  with 

Design Requirements

a)  Boarding  houses  shall  comply  with 
the  minimum  access 
requirements 
contained within  the BCA and Australian 
Standard  1428  –  Design  for Access  and 
Mobility (as amended).

########Page348

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)17.4 Landscaping     

Objectives:

 ■ To  encourage  the  planting  of  native  and  low  water  consumption  plants  and 

trees.

 ■ To enhance the existing streetscape and promote a scale and density of planting 
that softens the visual impact of buildings, while maintaining opportunities for 
passive surveillance.

17.4
Landscaping

Design Requirements

a)  Landscaping  shall  be  provided  to  a 

minimum of a:

i)  3 metre wide strip along the primary 
and secondary street frontage (other 
than vehicle driveways); and

ii)  1.5  metre  wide  strip  along  the  full 

width of the rear setbacks.

b)  Native  mature  trees  on  site  shall  be 

retained.

c)  Car  parking  areas  located  in  the  front 
building  setbacks must be screened by 
appropriate  hedging  plant  species  at 
suitable spacing.

d)  Development applications  for boarding 
houses shall include a  Landscape Plan 
and  report,  prepared  by  a  suitably 
the 
qualified 
following:

addressing 

person 

i)  species, location and mature height 

of proposed planting;

ii)  driveway areas;and

iii) fencing height and materials.

########Page349

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)17.5
Waste 
Management

17.5 Waste Management 

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure that appropriate facilities are provided for the storage and collection of 

waste  generated by boarding houses.

Note:

Refer  to  Section  2.15  of  Part 
2  of  Volume  1  for  additional 
requirements 
Waste 
Management.

on 

17.2.5  Boarding  Housing  and  Waste 
Management  

a)  Boarding  houses  shall  make  provision 
for  waste storage, allocated behind the 
primary  and  secondary  setbacks  and 
out  of  public  view.  Provision  shall  be 
made  for  the  following  rates  of  waste 
generation:                   

i)  Garbage:  1 x 240-litre bin for every 
3 boarding rooms per week if bins are 
to be used on a shared basis, or 1 x 
140-litre bin for every boarding room 
per week if bins are to be allocated 
to individual boarding rooms           

ii)  Recyclables:  1  x  240-litre  bin  for 
every 3 boarding rooms per fortnight 
if  bins  are  to  be  used  on  a  shared 
basis,  or  1  x  240-litre  bin  for  every 
boarding  room  per  fortnight  if  bins 
are  to  be  allocated  to  individual 
boarding rooms.

b)  All  boarding  house  developments  shall 
make  provision  for  an  appropriately 
storage 
sized  waste/recycling  bin 
facility 
located 
is  centrally 
and  provides  convenient  access  for 
occupants  and  collection  contractors. 
Such storage shall: 

that 

i)  provide  for  storage  of  a  sufficient 
number  of  bins,  as  outlined  under 
Section 17.2.5 (a) above;  

ii)  be no more than 25 metres from the 

street;   

iii) be covered; 

iv)  contain a hose connection;

v)  have  an  impervious  floor  that  is 

########Page350

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)connected to the sewer;and

vi)  incorporate design and construction 
(including  colours,  materials  and 
the 
finishes) 
development.

that  complement 

c)  The  communal  waste/recycling  bin 
storage  facility  shall  not  be  located  in 
such  a  place  that  requires  any  bins  to 
be  transported  through  any  habitable 
part of the boarding house to reach the 
collection point. 

d)  All bins located within waste/recycling 
bin  storage  facility  shall  be  presented 
to the kerbside for collection by a site 
manager,  no  earlier  than  the  evening 
prior  to  scheduled  collection  and 
returned  directly  to  the  communal 
bin  storage  area  within  four  hours  of 
collection.

e)  Any development containing 20 or more 
bedrooms , and/or when the number of 
bins proposed cannot be accommodated 
within  50%  of  the  development’s 
frontage  width  on  collection  day,  the 
development  shall  be  designed  to 
accommodate forward-in, forward-out, 
drive-on vehicular collection for on-site 
servicing (for the purpose of calculating 
the minimum area behind the kerb and 
gutter required for bin placement, each 
bin  shall  be  provided  a  clear  width  of 
1.0  metre  which  allows  for  a  300mm 
separation distance either side of each 
bin). 

17.5
Waste 
Management

########Page351

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)17.6
Management 
Plan

17.6 Management Plan     

Objectives:

 ■ Ensure  that  boarding  houses  maintain  the  residential  amenity  of  adjoining 

neighbours.

 ■ Ensure that the residents of boarding houses are provided with a satisfactory 

level of  residential amenity.

Design Requirements

a)  A  management  plan  shall  be  prepared 
and 
lodged  with  the  Development 
Application  for  any  proposed  boarding 
house.

b)  The management plan shall provide the 

following information:

i)  24  hour  contact  details  of  the 
manager  /  caretaker 
(including 
phone  number  and  mobile  phone 
number);

ii)  proposed 

staffing 

arrangements 
during  the  daytime  and  at  night-
time;

iii) proposed  measures  to  control  any 
potential  noise  or  amenity  impacts 
within  the  building  and  upon  the 
surrounding locality;

iv)  proposed 

and 

safety 

security 
measures to be employed within the 
boarding house including prominent 
display  boards  within  the  building 
telephone 
containing  emergency 
numbers 
essential 
other 
telephone numbers; 

and 

Note:

All  boarding  houses  shall  be 
subject  to  annual  fire  safety 
and  compliance  inspections  by 
Council.

and 

The  Boarding  House  Act  2012 
(BH  Act  )  sets  out  registration 
occupancy 
requirements 
principles 
‘registrable 
for 
boarding houses’ (as defined under 
the  Act)  to  ensure  delivery  of 
quality  accommodation  services 
and  protection  of  the  wellbeing 
and living amenity of residents. 

The  BH  Act  is  available  for  the 
NSW legislation website at:

www.legislation.nsw.gov.au

v)  proposed  management  practices  to 
prevent the use of outdoor common 
open space areas between 10.00pm 
and 7.00am.; and

vi)  professional  cleaning  and  vermin 
control  arrangements 
for  at  a 
minimum, the shared facilities, such 
as  kitchens,  bathrooms,  laundries  
and  indoor  and  outdoor  common 
areas.

########Page352

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Appendix 1 - Biodiversity Statement

In circumstances where impacts on native biodiversity cannot be avoided a Biodiversity 

Statement shall be prepared in order to demonstrate: 

A1

a)  the development has been sited, designed, constructed and managed 

in a manner that minimises the impact on native biodiversity and 

maintains habitat connectivity as much as practicable;

b)  that the impact is essential for the development and limited 

to the extent necessary to facilitate the safe and orderly use 

of the land for the purpose of the development;

Proposed measures that could be employed to minimise impacts on native biodiversity 

include:

i)  protection and enhancement of vegetation/habitats of high conservation value;

ii)   the retention of a substantial amount of native vegetation/habitat of adequate 

size and configuration to promote the conservation of the existing flora and fauna 

communities;

iii) retention of habitat resources, including hollow-bearing trees, habitat logs and 

bush rock

iv)  the  retention  and/or  the  creation  of  vegetation  links,  wildlife  corridors  and 

vegetation  buffers  wherever  possible,  subject  to  the  appropriate  bush  fire  risk 

management;

v)  the minimisation of any threats to native flora and fauna and their habitats during 

construction and during the operational life of the development;

vi)  the minimisation of habitat fragmentation;

vii) the safe movement of native fauna facilitated by implementing, where appropriate, 

speed controls of 40 km/h or less, traffic management measures and signage;

viii) the protection of water quality in the locality so as not to threaten the survival of 

native aquatic fauna and flora or fauna that rely on the watercourse for survival; 

and

ix)  ensuring  that  the  habitat  of  native  vegetation  is  retained  or  enhanced  by 

maintaining or replicating hydrological and groundwater conditions.

Note: A biodiversity statement can be incorporated into a Native Flora and Native Fauna 

Assessment Report

########Page353

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)A2

Appendix 2 - Weed Management Plan 

Where the site analysis identifies noxious weeds on the site, a weed management strategy 

(WMP) shall be submitted with any development application. A WMP shall be prepared by 

a suitably qualified professional and shall include:

a)  a complete list of all noxious and environmental weeds on the site;

b)  a site plan displaying actual weed infestation densities shown 

as percentages and grouped into cover classes as follows:

R = (Rare): less than 1% cover;

O = (Occasional): between 1 and 5% cover;

F = (Frequent) between 5 and 20% cover;

A = (Abundant) between 20 and 40% cover;

D = (Dominant) between 40 and 100% cover;

c)  a treatment program for each weed species identified.

The treatment program for each weed species shall detail the following:

i)  the  method(s)  of  treatment  of  the  weeds  e.g.  mechanical  removal  or 

herbicide application;

ii)  the herbicide product name (if used), the proposed rates and method(s) of 

application;

iii) the timing of all treatments and control method(s) to be applied;

iv)  an ongoing maintenance program detailing methods of follow up treatments 

to  ensure  all  weed  infestations  present  are  contained  and/or  controlled; 

and

v)  details of any weed material disposal methods (i.e. if weed material is to be 

removed from the development site.) 

Note: It is an offence to knowingly disperse/transport  or cause to be dispersed/transported 

from the land any animal or thing which has on it, or contains notifiable  weed material 

or other noxious weed materials listed in Appendix 3 of the Plan.

########Page354

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Appendix 3 – Noxious Weeds

Weed

Class

Legal requirements

A3

African boxthorn [Lycium ferocis-
simum]  
A Weed of National Significance 

African feathergrass [Pennisetum 
macrourum]  

African olive [Olea europaea 
subspecies cuspidata (syn. Olea 
europaea subspecies africana)]  

African turnip weed [Sisymbrium 
runcinatum]  

African turnip weed [Sisymbrium 
thellungii]  

Alligator weed [Alternanthera 
philoxeroides]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Anchored water hyacinth [Eich-
hornia azurea]  

Annual ragweed [Ambrosia arte-
misiifolia]  

Arrowhead [Sagittaria calycina 
variety calycina (syn. Sagittaria 
montevidensis subspecies caly-
cina)] 

Artichoke thistle [Cynara cardun-
culus]  

Asparagus [Asparagus species ]  
Ex A.aethiopicus A.africanus 
A.asparagoides A.declinatus 
A.falcatus A.macowanii var. 
zuluensis A.officinalis A.plumosus 
A.racemosus A.virgatus 

4

5

4

5

5

3

1

5

4

5

4

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continuously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continuously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be fully and continu-
ously suppressed and destroyed 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must not be sold, propagated 
or knowingly distributed 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must not be sold, propagated 
or knowingly distributed 

########Page355

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)A3

Appendix 3 Noxious Weeds - continued 

Weed

Class

Legal requirements

Asparagus fern [Asparagus virga-
tus (syn. Protasparagus virgatus)]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Athel tree / Athel pine [Tamarix 
aphylla]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Balloon vine [Cardiospermum 
grandiflorum]  

Bathurst/Noogoora/Hunter/
South American/Californian/
cockle burrs [Xanthium species]  

Bear-skin fescue [Festuca gaut-
ieri]  

Bitou bush [Chrysanthemoides 
monilifera subspecies rotundata]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Black knapweed [Centaurea 
xmoncktonii]  

Black willow [Salix nigra]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Blackberry [Rubus fruticosus ag-
gregate species]  
except cultivars Black satin Che-
halem Chester Thornless Dirksen 
Thornless Loch Ness Murrindindi 
Silvan Smooth stem Thornfree 

Boneseed [Chrysanthemoides 
monilifera subspecies monilifera]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Bridal veil creeper [Aspara-
gus declinatus (syn. Asparagus 
crispus, Myrsiphyllum declina-
tum)]  
A Weed of National Significance 

2

5

4

4

5

2

1

2

4

1

4

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

########Page356

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Appendix 3 Noxious Weeds - continued 

Weed

Class

Legal requirements

Bridal veil creeper [Aspara-
gus declinatus (syn. Asparagus 
crispus, Myrsiphyllum declina-
tum)]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Broad-leaf pepper tree [Schinus 
terebinthifolius]  

Broomrapes [Orobanche species 
except the native O. cernua vari-
ety australiana and O. minor]  

Burr ragweed [Ambrosia confer-
tiflora]  

Cabomba [All Cabomba species 
except C. furcata]  

Castor oil plant [Ricinus com-
munis]  

Cat’s claw creeper [Dolichandra 
unguis-cati (syn. Macfadyena 
unguis-cati)]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Cayenne snakeweed [Stachytar-
pheta cayennensis]  

Chilean needle grass [Nassella 
neesiana]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Chinese celtis [Celtis sinensis]  

Chinese violet [Asystasia gangeti-
ca subspecies micrantha]  

Climbing asparagus fern [Aspara-
gus plumosus (syn. Protasparagus 
plumosus)]  
A Weed of National Significance 

1

2

1

5

5

4

4

5

4

4

1

2

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continuously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continuously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continuously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continuously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

A3

########Page357

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)A3

Appendix 3 Noxious Weeds - continued 

Weed

Class

Legal requirements

Climbing asparagus fern [Aspara-
gus plumosus (syn. Protasparagus 
plumosus)]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Clockweed [Gaura parviflora]  

Coolatai grass [Hyparrhenia 
hirta]  

Corn sowthistle [Sonchus arven-
sis]  

Dodder [All Cuscuta species 
except the native species C. 
australis, C. tasmanica and C. 
victoriana]  
Includes All Cuscuta species 
except the native species C. 
australis, C. tasmanica and C. 
victoriana 

Espartillo [Amelichloa brachy-
chaeta, Amelichloa caudata]  

Eurasian water milfoil [Myrio-
phyllum spicatum]  

Fine-bristled burr grass 
[Cenchrus brownii]  

Fireweed [Senecio madagas-
cariensis]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Flax-leaf broom [Genista linifo-
lia]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Fountain grass [Pennisetum 
setaceum]  

4

5

3

5

5

5

1

5

4

4

5

The plant must not be sold, propagated 
or knowingly distributed 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be fully and continu-
ously suppressed and destroyed and the 
plant must not be sold, propagated or 
knowingly distributed 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must not be sold, propagated 
or knowingly distributed 

The plant must not be sold, propagated 
or knowingly distributed 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

########Page358

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Appendix 3 Noxious Weeds - continued 

Weed

Frogbit / Spongeplant [Limno-
bium laevigatum and L. spongia]  

Class

1

Legal requirements

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

A3

Gallon’s curse [Cenchrus biflorus]  

5

Gamba grass [Andropogon gay-
anus]  

Giant Parramatta grass [Sporobo-
lus fertilis (syn. Sporobolus 
indicus variety major)]  

Giant reed / Elephant grass 
[Arundo donax]  

Glaucous star thistle [Carthamus 
glaucus]  

Golden thistle [Scolymus hispani-
cus]  

Gorse [Ulex europaeus]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Green cestrum [Cestrum parqui]  

Grey sallow [Salix cinerea]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Ground asparagus [Asparagus 
aethiopicus (syn. Protasparagus 
aethiopicus)]  

Groundsel bush [Baccharis hal-
imifolia]  

Harrisia cactus [Harrisia species]  

5

3

4

5

5

3

3

2

4

3

4

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be fully and continu-
ously suppressed and destroyed 

The plant must not be sold, propagated 
or knowingly distributed 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be fully and continu-
ously suppressed and destroyed 

The plant must be fully and continu-
ously suppressed and destroyed 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

The plant must not be sold, propagated 
or knowingly distributed 

The plant must be fully and continu-
ously suppressed and destroyed 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continuously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

########Page359

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)A3

Appendix 3 Noxious Weeds - continued 

Weed

Class

Legal requirements

Hawkweed [Hieracium species]  

Heteranthera / Kidneyleaf mud 
plantain [Heteranthera reni-
formis]  

Honey locust [Gleditsia triacan-
thos]  

Horsetail [Equisetum species]  

Hydrocotyl / Water pennywort 
[Hydrocotyl ranunculoides]  

Hygrophila [Hygrophila costata]  

Hymenachne [Hymenachne am-
plexicaulis and hybrids]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Karroo thorn [Acacia karroo]  

Kochia [Bassia scoparia (syn. 
Kochia scoparia) except B. sco-
paria subspecies trichophylla]  
except Bassia scoparia subspe-
cies trichophylla 

Koster’s curse / Clidemia [Cli-
demia hirta]  

Kudzu [Pueraria lobata]  

1

1

4

1

1

2

1

1

1

1

2

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

########Page360

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Appendix 3 Noxious Weeds - continued 

Weed

Class

Legal requirements

A3

Lagarosiphon [Lagarosiphon 
major]  

Lantana [Lantana species]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Leafy elodea / Dense waterweed 
/ Egeria [Egeria densa (syn. Elo-
dea densa)]  

Lippia [Phyla canescens]  

Long-leaf willow primrose [Lud-
wigia longifolia]  

Ludwigia [Ludwigia peruviana]  

Madeira vine [Anredera cordifo-
lia]  

Mexican feather grass [Nassella 
tenuissima]  

Mexican poppy [Argemone mexi-
cana]  

Miconia [Miconia species]  

1

4

4

4

3

3

3

1

5

1

Mikania vine [Mikania micrantha]  

1

Mimosa [Mimosa pigra]  
A Weed of National Significance 

1

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continuously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continuously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must not be sold, propagated 
or knowingly distributed except inci-
dentally in hay or lucerne 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be fully and continu-
ously suppressed and destroyed and the 
plant must not be sold, propagated or 
knowingly distributed 

The plant must be fully and continu-
ously suppressed and destroyed 

The plant must be fully and continu-
ously suppressed and destroyed 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

########Page361

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)A3

Appendix 3 Noxious Weeds - continued 

Weed

Class

Legal requirements

Ming (Pom pom / Zig zag) aspara-
gus fern [Asparagus macowanii 
var. zuluensis (syn. A. retrofrac-
tus)]  

Montopellier broom / Cape 
broom [Genista monspessulana]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Morning glory (coastal) [Ipomoea 
cairica]  

Morning glory (purple) [Ipomoea 
indica]  

Mossman River grass [Cenchrus 
echinatus]  

Mother-of-millions [Bryophyllum 
species]  
See Weed Control Order 30 for 
more explanation 

Mysore thorn [Caesalpinia deca-
petala]  

Pampas grass [Cortaderia spe-
cies]  

Paper mulberry [Broussonetia 
papyrifera]  

Parthenium weed [Parthenium 
hysterophorus]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Paterson’s curse, Vipers bugloss, 
Italian bugloss [Echium plantag-
ineum, E. vulgare and E. itali-
cum]  

2

3

4

4

5

4

3

3

2

1

4

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

The plant must be fully and continu-
ously suppressed and destroyed and the 
plant must not be sold, propagated or 
knowingly distributed 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

The plant must be fully and continu-
ously suppressed and destroyed 

The plant must be fully and continu-
ously suppressed and destroyed and the 
plant must not be sold, propagated or 
knowingly distributed 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 

########Page362

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Appendix 3 Noxious Weeds - continued 

Weed

Class

Legal requirements

Pond apple [Annona glabra]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Prickly acacia [Vachellia nilotica 
(syn. Acacia nilotica)]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Prickly pear [Opuntia species 
except O. ficus-indica]  

Prickly pear [Cylindropuntia spe-
cies]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Privet (Broad-leaf) [Ligustrum 
lucidum]  

Privet (Narrow-leaf/Chinese) 
[Ligustrum sinense]  

Red rice [Oryza rufipogon]  

Rhus tree [Toxicodendron suc-
cedaneum (syn. Toxicodendron 
succedanea, Rhus succedanea)]  

Rubber vine [Cryptostegia gran-
diflora]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Sagittaria [Sagittaria platyphylla 
(syn. Sagittaria graminea variety 
platyphylla)]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Salvinia [Salvinia molesta]  
A Weed of National Significance 

1

1

4

4

4

4

5

4

1

4

3

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continuously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continuously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continuously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continuously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continuously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must not be sold, propagated 
or knowingly distributed 

The plant must be fully and continu-
ously suppressed and destroyed 

A3

########Page363

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)A3

Appendix 3 Noxious Weeds - continued 

Weed

Class

Legal requirements

Scotch broom / English broom 
[Cytisus scoparius subspecies 
scoparius]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Senegal tea plant [Gymnocoronis 
spilanthoides]  

Serrated tussock [Nassella tricho-
toma]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Siam weed [Chromolaena odo-
rata]  

Sicklethorn [Asparagus falcatus]  

Silver-leaf nightshade [Solanum 
elaeagnifolium]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Smooth-stemmed turnip [Bras-
sica barrelieri subspecies oxyr-
rhina]  

4

1

4

1

2

4

5

Soldier thistle [Picnomon acarna]  

5

Spotted knapweed [Centaurea 
stoebe subspecies micranthos]  

St. John’s wort [Hypericum per-
foratum]  

Sweet briar [Rosa rubiginosa]  

Texas blueweed [Helianthus 
ciliaris]  

1

4

4

5

The plant must not be sold, propagated 
or knowingly distributed 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

The plant must not be sold, propagated 
or knowingly distributed 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

########Page364

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)A3

Appendix 3 Noxious Weeds - continued 

Weed

Class

Legal requirements

Tussock paspalum [Paspalum 
quadrifarium]  

Water caltrop [Trapa species]  

Water hyacinth [Eichhornia cras-
sipes]  
A Weed of National Significance 

Water lettuce [Pistia stratiotes]  

4

1

3

1

Water soldier [Stratiotes aloides]  

1

Willows [Salix species except S. 
babylonica, S. xreichardtii, S. 
xcalodendron, S. cinerea and S. 
nigra]  
Includes all Salix species except 
S. babylonica, S. x reichardtii, S. 
x calodendron 

Witchweed [Striga species ex-
cept the native Striga parviflora]  

Yellow bells [Tecoma stans]  

Yellow burrhead [Limnocharis 
flava]  

Yellow nutgrass [Cyperus escu-
lentus]  

4

1

3

1

5

The growth of the plant must be man-
aged in a manner that continuously in-
hibits the ability of the plant to spread 
and the plant must not be sold, propa-
gated or knowingly distributed 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be fully and continu-
ously suppressed and destroyed 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must not be sold, propagated 
or knowingly distributed 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The plant must be fully and continu-
ously suppressed and destroyed 

The plant must be eradicated from the 
land and that land must be kept free of 
the plant 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

The requirements in the Noxious Weeds 
Act 1993 for a notifiable weed must be 
complied with 

This is an All of NSW declaration 

########Page365

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)A4

Appendix 4 – Statement of Flora and Fauna Impact & Draft Koala 
Management Plan 

The following Koala food tree species are listed in Schedule 2 of SEPP44 - Koala Habitat 

Protection (SEPP44):

 – Eucalyptus tereticornis  (Forest red gum)  

 – Eucalyptus microcorys  (Tallowwood)  

 – Eucalyptus punctata  (Grey Gum)  

 – Eucalyptus viminalis  (Ribbon or manna gum)  

 – Eucalyptus camaldulensis  (River red gum)  

 – Eucalyptus haemastoma  (Broad leaved scribbly gum)  

 – Eucalyptus signata  (Scribbly gum)  

 – Eucalyptus albens  (White box)  

 – Eucalyptus populnea  (Bimble box or poplar box)  

 – Eucalyptus robusta  (Swamp mahogany)  

In addition to those tree species listed in SEPP44,  the following species must also be 

considered when deciding whether land contains potential koala habitat under SEPP44:

 – Eucalyptus agglomerata (Blue-leaved Stringybark) 

 – Eucalyptus amplifolia (Cabbage gum)

 – Eucalyptus consideniana (Yertchuk)

 – Eucalyptus longifolia (Woollybutt)

 – Eucalyptus microcorys (Tallowwood)

 – Eucalyptus moluccana (Cabbage Gum)

 – Eucalyptus globoidea (White Stringybark)

This above additional list has been developed based on information published in a number 

of local scientific studies conducted in the Campbelltown LGA.

In circumstances where the trees of the types listed in Schedule 2 of SEPP44, and those 

additional species outlined above constitute at least 15% of the total number of trees 

in the upper or lower strata component the property is considered to contain potential 

koala habitat under SEPP44.  Further if the property has been identified as containing 

koala habitat in the Campbelltown Koala Habitat Planning Map it is also considered to 

contain Potential Koala habitat under the SEPP44.

A copy of the Koala Habitat Planning Map can be provided to applicants upon request.

########Page366

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)A5

Appendix 5 – Erosion and Sediment Control Plan

An Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (ESCP) shall be prepared for all construction sites 

and/or activities involving the disturbance of the land surface, and submitted with the 

development application.

Each ESCP shall be prepared in accordance with the Managing Urban Stormwater – Soils 

and Construction 2004, and shall contain the following information: 

i)  details pertaining to the location, ownership/title of the site; 

ii)  a scaled plan of the site showing location of property boundaries, adjoining roads 

and north point;

iii) existing and proposed final contours, including location of cut and fill batters;

iv)  existing and final overland flow drainage paths;

v)  location and description of all proposed erosion and sediment control measures;

vi)  methods for minimising soil disturbance;

vii) methods for trapping sediments and preventing stormwater pollution;

viii) location of intended stabilised all-weather access point;

ix)  location of material stockpile areas and control methods; and

x)  any revegetation proposals.

In  addition  to  these  requirements  the  ESCP  is  to  ensure  the  following  outcomes  are 

achieved:

i)  site activities shall be managed to minimise soil disturbance;

ii)  water shall be diverted around any proposed soil disturbance area with the use of 

catch drains or diversion banks;

iii) a sediment barrier shall be installed as close as possible to the soil disturbance, 

along the down slope side;

iv)  stabilised all weather access points shall be constructed at all entrance and exit 

points to the subject land;

v)  all stockpiles shall be located within the sediment control zone and shall not be 

located within an overland flow path;

vi)  building operations such as tool washing and brick, tile or masonry cutting shall 
be carried out within the property boundaries, up-slope of a dam or infiltration 
trench;

vii) temporary or permanent downpipes shall be connected to the stormwater system 

as soon as the roofing is installed;

viii) the site shall be stabilised and revegetated prior to the removal of erosion and 
sediment control measures this includes the laying of all turf and the planting/
mulching of all garden beds;

ix)  a water pollution sign, supplied with the development consent, shall be displayed 
on the most prominent point of the development site and be clearly visible from 
the street; and

x)  all erosion and sediment control works shall have regard to Council’s Engineering 
Design  Guidelines  for  Development  available  from  Council’s  website  at  www.
campbelltown.nsw.gov.au. 

########Page367

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)A6

Appendix 6 – Cut and Fill Management Plan

Where an application that proposes to involve any cut and/or fill operations, the following 

information shall be provided (by a NATA registered laboratory) with the development 

application:

i)  description and source of any proposed fill material;

ii)  detailed plans of any proposed cut and filling;

iii) proposed method of compacting fill; and

iv)  proposed method of stabilising cut and/or fill work.

Council shall be satisfied that the information provided demonstrates the following:

i)  that the fill is suitable for and does not compromise the current and proposed end 

use of the site or any adjacent or nearby land;

ii)  that the cut or fill does not compromise the structural integrity of structures on 

the site or on any adjacent or nearby land;

iii) that the fill material shall have similar geo-technical properties to the surrounding 

in-situ material;

iv)  that  any  cut  or  fill  does  not  impede  the  drainage  characteristics  (surface  and 

subsurface)  of  the  land  external  to  the  cut  and  fill  boundaries  and  does  not 

interfere with any adjacent or nearby land;

v)  that the risk of a pollution incident or any other deleterious impact as a result of 

cutting or filling activities on site has been minimised;

vi)  that the cut or fill does not compromise the life span of the remaining vegetation 

on the site or on any adjacent or nearby land; and

vii) that  any  increase  in  ground  level  does  not  unacceptably  affect  the  privacy/

amenity of developments on any adjoining or nearby properties.

In addition to the above requirements, applicants are reminded that Council requires:

i)  all  construction  sites  and/or  activities  involving  the  disturbance  of  the  land 

surface require a Erosion and Sediment Control Plan to be submitted;

ii)  all  filling  works  shall  have  regard  to  Council’s  current  specifications  for 

Construction  of  Subdivision  Roads  and  Drainage  Works  and AS  3798  Guidelines 

for Earthworks for Commercial and Residential Development  (Refer to Council’s 

Engineering Design Guidelines for Development available from Council’s website 

at www.campbelltown.nsw.gov.au} ; and

iii) all fill applied shall be Virgin Excavated Natural Material (VENM).

########Page368

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Appendix 7 – Unsuitable Plant Species for a Child Care Centre

A7

Species Name
Brassaia actinophylla
Brugmansia spp.
Cestrum parqui
Caesalpinia gilliessi
Convallaris majalis
Dapne spp.

Duranta erectal, Duranta repens

Euphorbia pulcherrima
Euphorbia tirucalli
Euphorbia peplus
Euphorbia marginata
Gloriosa superba
Laburnum spp.
Lantana species 
Lobelia spp.
Malus x domestica
Melia azedarach
Oleander spp.
Oenanthe crocata
Prunus amygdalus
Prunus armeniaca
Prunus dulcis
Prunus oersica
Rheum rhabarbarum
Ricinus cummunis
Solanum nigrum
Solanum pseudocapsium
Solanum spp.
Tabernaemontana spp.
Carolina jasmine
Toxicodendron succedaneum 
Zanthedeschia aethiopica
Acacia spp.
Acokantheria spp.
Alnus spp.
Betula spp.

Common Name
Umbrella Tree
Angel’s Trumpet
Green Cestrum 
Bird of Paradise
Lily of the Valley
Daphne, Garland flower, Rose 
Daphne
Golden Dewdrop, Aussie Gold, 
Sheenas Gold
Poinsettia
Naked Lady or Pencil Bush
Petty Surge
Ghost Weed
Glory Lily
Golden Chain Tree
Lantana
Cardinal Flower
Apple Tree
White Cedar 
Oleander
Hemlock
Bitter Almond
Apricot Tree
Almond Tree
Peach Tree
Rhuburb
Castor Oil Plant
Black Nightside
Jerusalem Cherry
Potato
Crepe Jasmine
Gelsemium sempervirens
Rhus Tree
Calla or Arum Lily
Wattle spp. (various)
Wintersweet
Alder spp. (various)
Birch spp. (various)

########Page369

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)A7

Appendix 7  Unsuitable Plant Species for a Child Care Centre- continued

Species Name
Brassaia actinophylla
Brugmansia spp.
Cestrum parqui
Caesalpinia gilliessi
Convallaris majalis
Dapne spp.

Duranta erectal, Duranta repens

Euphorbia pulcherrima
Euphorbia tirucalli
Euphorbia peplus
Euphorbia marginata
Gloriosa superba
Laburnum spp.
Lantana species 
Lobelia spp.
Malus x domestica
Melia azedarach
Oleander spp.
Oenanthe crocata
Prunus amygdalus
Prunus armeniaca
Prunus dulcis
Prunus oersica
Rheum rhabarbarum
Ricinus cummunis
Solanum nigrum
Solanum pseudocapsium
Solanum spp.
Tabernaemontana spp.
Carolina jasmine
Toxicodendron succedaneum 
Zanthedeschia aethiopica
Acacia spp.
Acokantheria spp.
Alnus spp.
Betula spp.

Common Name
Umbrella Tree
Angel’s Trumpet
Green Cestrum 
Bird of Paradise
Lily of the Valley
Daphne, Garland flower, Rose 
Daphne
Golden Dewdrop, Aussie Gold, 
Sheenas Gold
Poinsettia
Naked Lady or Pencil Bush
Petty Surge
Ghost Weed
Glory Lily
Golden Chain Tree
Lantana
Cardinal Flower
Apple Tree
White Cedar 
Oleander
Hemlock
Bitter Almond
Apricot Tree
Almond Tree
Peach Tree
Rhuburb
Castor Oil Plant
Black Nightside
Jerusalem Cherry
Potato
Crepe Jasmine
Gelsemium sempervirens
Rhus Tree
Calla or Arum Lily
Wattle spp. (various)
Wintersweet
Alder spp. (various)
Birch spp. (various)

########Page370

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Appendix 7  Unsuitable Plant Species for a Child Care Centre- continued

A7

Species Name
Callitris spp.
Castanospremum australe
Casuarina spp.
Cupressus spp.
Eucalyptus citriodora
Grevillea spp.

Juglans spp.
Lagunaria petersonii
Ligustrum spp.
Liquidambar styraciflua
Olea spp.
Poinsettia 
Populus spp.
Prosopis juliflora
Quercus spp.
Robinia spp.
Salix spp.
Sapium sebiferum
Ulmus spp.
Brunsfelsia spp.
Clematis microphylla
Cyclamen persicum
Dieffenbachia spp.
Digitalis spp.
Hedera spp.
Hippeastrum spp.
Hydrangea spp.
Ilex spp.
Juniper spp.
Lomandra spp
Lonicera spp.
Macrozamia spp.
Ochna spp.
Parietaria judaica
Urtica species

Common Name
Cypress Pine
Blackbean, Moreton Bay Chestnut
She Oak spp. (various)
Conifer Pine spp.
Lemon Scented Gum 
Grevillea or spider flower spp. 
(various)
Walnut
Norfolk island Hibiscus
Privett spp. (various)
Liquidamber
Olive spp. (various)
Poinsettia
Populus spp. (various)
Mesquite
Oak spp (various)
Robinia spp. (various)
Willow spp. (various)
Chinese Tallowood 
Elm Spp. (Various)
Yesterday, Today, Tommorrow
Clematis
Cyclamen
Dumb Cane
Foxgloves
Ivy spp. (various)
Hippeastrum
Hydrangea
Holly spp. (various)
Juniper spp. (various)
Mat Rush spp. (various)
Honeysuckle (various)
Cycads
Carnival Bush, Mickey Mouse Plant
Pellitory, Asthma or Stick Weed
Stinging nettle

########Page371

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)A7

Appendix 7  Unsuitable Plant Species for a Child Care Centre- continued

Species Name

Common Name

Philodendron spp.
Raphiolepis spp.
Spathiphyllum spp.
Vinca major
Datura stramonium
Nicotiana glauca
Wisteria sinensis
Agapanthus spp.
Amaryllis spp.
Cotoneaster
Alocasia macrorrhiza
Colocasia esculenta
Atropa belladonna

Philodendron
Indian Hawthorn
Peace Lily, Madonna Lily
Vinca
Thornapple
Tree Tabacco
Wisteria
Agapanthus spp.
Amaryllis spp.
Cotoneaster spp.
Cunjevoi / elephants ears
Elephants ears (taro)
Deadly Nightshade
Cotton Bush
Mushrooms / Toadstools
Azaleas and Rhododendrons
Daffodils and other narcissus
Chillies 
Cactus and other succulents with 
spines

Note: Child care centres must consider plant use very carefully, and omit 
any plants that are known to be toxic, where any parts of which can cause 
serious skin irritations, illness or death if taken in adequate quantities.  
This includes leaves, seeds, fruits, flowers, bark and sap.  Planting design 
should also limit species with profuse flowers, sharp or spiny leaves, ber-
ries or seeds that could cause a choking hazard, or those known to shed 
branches in heat or windy conditions. 

The  above  plant  list  includes  species  identified  by  the  Australian  Na-
tional  Botanic  Gardens,  the  Children’s  Hospital  Westmead,  and  is  not 
exhaustive.

########Page372

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Appendix 8 – Aboriginal Heritage Impact Assessment

A8

An Aboriginal Heritage Impact Assessment (AHIA ) is required where a development or 

activity is proposed on land:

i)  Within a zone of archeological sensitivity; 

ii)  Upon which, Aboriginal sites, places, or areas where Aboriginal objects have been 

previously identified;

iii) Within an identified cultural landscape;

iv)  Containing old growth trees;

v)  That is primarily undeveloped; 

vi)  Containing or adjacent to rivers or creek lines;

vii) On a ridgeline; and

viii) Where sufficient information is provided to Council that leads it to conclude that 

the land may have potential Aboriginal heritage significance.

The AHIA report  must be prepared in accordance with the Office of the Environment and 

Heritage  (OEH) Guidelines.

Harm to Aboriginal objects should be avoided wherever possible. Where harm can not be 

avoided, an approval to harm Aboriginal objects must be obtained from OEH.

Information on the process for investigating and assessing Aboriginal cultural heritage in 

NSW can be found on the OEH web site. 

########Page373

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)A9

Appendix 9- Heritage Impact Statement

A  Heritage  Impact  Assessment  (HIA)  is  required  for  all  development  that  is  on  land 

occupied by items of heritage and/or land in the vicinity of heritage items. And shall:

i)  identify why the item, place or area is of heritage significance (the statement of 

heritage significance);

ii)  describe the works, change of use and any physical changes to the place; 

iii) identify  the  impact  or  impacts  the  proposed  changes  to  the  heritage  item  will 

have on its heritage significance; and

iv)  identify and describe any measures being proposed to lessen negative impacts of 

the proposed changes.

In circumstances where the proposed changes are likely to have a detrimental affect on 

the item, place or area’s of heritage significance, a heritage impact statement shall be 

prepared. The heritage impact statement shall:

i)  clearly identify any change or changes that will have a negative impact on the 

heritage significance of the item, place or area; 

ii)  state why the impact or impacts cannot be avoided;

iii) state the steps being taken to minimise their effects; and

iv)  be prepared in accordance with the Guidelines of the Heritage Branch as set out 

in Statements of Heritage Impact (prepared by the then NSW Heritage Office and 

the then Department of Urban Affairs & Planning 1996, revised 2002).

########Page374

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Appendix 10 – Contamination Management Plan

A10

All  applications  on  land,  that  has  been  identified  as  contaminated  or  of  having  the 

potential to be contaminated shall require the following information to be submitted: 

i)  land use history;

ii)  any past or present potentially contaminating activities;

iii) provide preliminary assessment of any site contamination and if required, provide 

a basis for a more detailed investigation; and

iv)  preliminary sampling and analysis may be required where contaminating activities 

are suspected or known to have occurred, or the land use history is incomplete.

Where  a  preliminary  investigation  determines  the  land  is  contaminated,  a  detailed 

investigation shall be carried out by a suitably qualified professional and submitted to 

Council with the development application and shall define the:

i)  nature, extent and degree of contamination;

ii)  assess  the  potential  risk  posed  by  contaminants  to  human  health  and  the 

environment; and 

iii) a Remedial Action Plan which details

 – remediation objectives;

 – the process and standards by which the land will be remediated;

 –  details of necessary approvals to be obtained from regulatory authorities; and

 – an  environmental  management  plan  for  ongoing  monitoring  and  maintenance 

requirements where the proposed remediation involves on site containment or 

encapsulation of contaminated material.

Upon completion of the required remediation, a validation report shall be submitted to 

Council to demonstrate that the objectives stated in the remedial action plan have been 

achieved and that any relevant conditions of development consent have been complied 

with, prior to the commencement of any activity/development.

########Page375

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)A11

Appendix 11 – Arborist Report 

a)  The Arborist Report shall include the following details:

 – The genus and species of each tree;

 – Health, amenity value and the Safe Useful Life Expectancy (SULE) rating of each 

tree;

 – ny pests or diseases that may be present on each tree;

 – Any  site  changes  and  surrounding  structures  which  may  affect  the  health  or 

vitality of the tree;

 – Impact of the development on each tree;

 – Impact of retaining trees on the proposed development;

 – The Tree Protection Zone (TPZ) required for each tree proposed to be retained;

 – Any root barriers necessary, type and their location;

 – Any branch or root pruning which may be required for the trees;

 – Any supporting evidence such as photographs, if relevant; and

 – Recommendation on the preferred option and an explanation why this option is 

preferred.

########Page376

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)Appendix 12 – Traffic Impact Assessment Report 

A12

For large-scale developments, residential apartment buildings, mixed use developments 

and the like a traffic impact assessment report shall be submitted with the development 

application.

A traffic impact assessment report shall address the following:

i)  the existing traffic environment;

ii)  traffic generation anticipated from the proposed development;

iii) the cumulative impact of traffic in the locality;

iv)  the need for traffic improvements in the locality;

v)  proposed traffic egress/ingress to arterial/sub arterial roads; and

vi)  sight distance and other safety issues.

########Page377

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015     Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)A13

Appendix 13 – Crime Prevention Plan 

For large-scale developments, residential apartment buildings, mixed use developments 

and  the  like  a  crime  prevention  plan  shall  be  submitted  with  the  development 

application.

A crime prevention plan shall address the following key principles of ‘crime prevention 

through environmental design’:

i)  natural surveillance;

ii)  natural access control;

iii) territorial reinforcement;

iv)  activity support;

v)  maintenance;

vi)  target hardening;

vii) target removal;

viii) personal safety support;

ix)  mixed use development;

x)  elimination of pedestrian movement predictors; and

xi)  natural guardianship.

########Page378

Campbelltown (Sustainable City) Development Control Plan 2015      Effective:11/03/16 Amendment No 2 (Effective:08/11/2016)