A1  Introduction

A1.1  The purpose of this 

A1.3  Land covered by this Plan

Development Control Plan

The purpose of this Development Control Plan (DCP) 
is to supplement the Canada Bay Local Environmental 
Plan (LEP) 2013 and provide more detailed provisions 
to guide development.

This DCP has been made in accordance with Section 
3.43 of the Environmental Planning & Assessment Act 
1979 (the Act) and must be read in conjunction with the 
provisions of Canada Bay LEP 2013.

Compliance with the provisions of this DCP does not 
necessarily guarantee that consent to a Development 
Application (DA) will be granted. Each DA will be 
assessed having regard to the LEP, this DCP, other 
matters listed in Section 4.15 of the Act, and any other 
policies adopted by the consent authority.

If there are circumstances when it is not relevant to 
comply with the controls in this DCP, applicants must 
provide a written submission clearly demonstrating 
compliance with the objectives of this DCP, and 
detailing the reasons the control/s should be varied. 
The proposed variation must result in a better outcome 
and meet all objectives of this DCP. The submission 
must also clearly demonstrate the variation sought will 
not adversely impact on the local amenity.

A1.2  DCP Name and 
commencement

This DCP may be referred to as the City of Canada Bay 
Development Control Plan. The DCP was adopted by 
Council on 21February 2017 and came into effect on 7 
March 2017. 

This Plan applies to all land within the Canada Bay 
Local Government Area except for the sites included in:

•  Special Precincts Development Control Plan

•  Strathfield Triangle Development Control Plan

•  Rhodes West Development Control Plan

•  Single Dwellings on Lots at Breakfast Point

•  Breakfast Point Development Control Plan 2005.

It should be noted that in certain circumstances site and 
precinct specific DCPs adopt some of the provisions of 
this DCP in accordance with Section 3.43 (3) of the Act.

A1.4  Relationship of this DCP to 

the LEP

The provisions contained in this DCP are in addition to 
the provisions of the LEP. If there is any inconsistency 
between this DCP and the LEP, the LEP will prevail.

A1.5  Aims of this DCP

1.  Encourage development that responds to its context 
and is compatible with the existing built environment 
and public domain;

2.  Recognise and reinforce the distinctive 

characteristics of Canada Bay’s neighbourhood and 
centres;

3.  Build upon the detailed objectives and controls 

under Canada Bay LEP 2013;

4.  Protect and enhance the public domain;

5.  Encourage design that maintains and enhances 

the character and heritage significance of heritage 
items and heritage conservation areas; and

6.  Encourage ecologically sustainable development 
and reduce the impacts of development on the 
environment.

Canada Bay DCP - Part A             ########PageA-11 

Development Control Plan CITY OF CANADA BAY Part A     IntroductionA1.6  Background information on 

this document

What is a Development Control Plan?

A Development Control Plan (DCP) is a commonly 
used town planning document which provides detailed 
guidance for the design and assessment of new 
development.

How to work through this document

Each topic contains an explanation, objectives and 
controls that should be complied with.

Objectives outline what the controls aim to achieve. 
Applicants should demonstrate that the proposed 
development fulfils the relevant objectives of each 
element and complies with the relevant minimum 
standards.

Structure of this DCP

The DCP is divided into the following sections with 
further detail is provided in the table below:

•  Part A - Introduction

•  Part B - Community Participation 

•  Part C - General Controls

•  Part D - Heritage

•  Part E - Residential Development

•  Part F - Mixed Use Areas & Neighbourhood Centres

•  Part G - Industrial Development

•  Part H - Signage and Advertising

•  Part I - Childcare Centres

•  Part J - Definitions

•  Appendix 1 - Conservation

Monitoring and review

The Council is required to keep the local environmental 
plans and development control plans under regular 
and periodic review (see section 3.21 of the Act). The 
Council is committed to this process to ensure that the 
Plans continue to be useful and relevant. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part A             ########PageA-12 

THIS PAGE WAS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

Development Control Plan CITY OF CANADA BAY Part A     IntroductionTHIS PAGE WAS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

Canada Bay DCP - Part A             ########PageA-13 

Development Control Plan CITY OF CANADA BAY Part A     IntroductionB

PART B - COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION 

Part B of this Development Control Plan has been repealed. The City of Canada Bay Community 
Participation Plan (CPP) sets out Council approach for encouraging community participation and 
engagement on land use planning matters.

THIS PAGE WAS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

Canada Bay DCP - Part B             ########PageB-14 

Development Control Plan Part B     Community Participation CITY OF CANADA BAY THIS PAGE WAS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

Canada Bay DCP - Part B             ########PageB-15 

Development Control Plan Part B     Community Participation CITY OF CANADA BAY C



Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-16 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY Rates of adaptable housing units and parking 
spaces to be provided

Adaptable housing units should be constructed to meet 
the performance requirements and are to include the 
essential features as required by AS4299 at the rates 
specified in Table C-A for developments that include a 
lift. Where the total number of adaptable housing units 
to be provided is not a whole figure, the figure is to be 
rounded up to the next whole figure.

Table C-A   Adaptable housing ratios for 
developments including a lift

Total number of 
dwellings

Number of adaptable 
dwellings to be 
provided

Between 0 and 7 inclusive Nil

Between 8 and 14

Between 15 and 21

Between 21 and 29

1 dwelling

2 dwellings

3 dwellings

30 or more

15% of total dwellings

C1   Equity of access

C1.1  Adaptable housing 

What is adaptable housing and why should it 
be provided?

Adaptable Housing is accommodation that is specifically 
designed to enable easy modification in the future for 
occupation and visitation by people with disabilities 
or progressive frailties. It is designed in accordance 
with the minimum standards for accessibility but is 
not designed as special purpose housing such as 
institutional care. Adaptable housing therefore can suit 
the needs of many different people, including people 
with a current disability and people who will acquire 
disabilities gradually as they age. Adaptable housing 
is also often attractive to people who prefer open plan 
type living, or those with children.

Typically, the provision of adaptable housing has been 
perceived to be onerous on developers. However, 
it has been demonstrated that the additional cost of 
incorporating adaptable features is in most cases 
not more than 5% - in fact nil in many cases. This 
initial cost is more than outweighed by the benefits of 
providing adaptable housing which include:

•  reduced costs of future modifications, which are often 
costly, to suit people with disabilities or increasing 
frailties; and

•  a wider range of people are able to access adaptable 

homes, thereby making them more visitable; and

•  residents are able to stay in their homes and use the 
same services as well as maintain the same support 
networks despite their changing needs; and

•  many adaptable features make homes safer for 

people of all ages and abilities. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-17 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
Flooring

Tiles or timber flooring is preferable to carpet. However, 
if carpet is to be provided it should be low pile with 
no underlay. Non-slip tiling should be provided in wet 
areas.

Walls

Walls located along main travel paths and in bedrooms 
and bathrooms should be reinforced to allow for 
installation of grab rails if necessary.

Windows

Windows should be operatable with one hand 
(preferably sliding) and located no higher than 700mm 
from the floor.

Landscaping

Outdoor areas should be designed to be low 
maintenance, with no lawns and a drip irrigation 
system. All paving should be even and be wheelchair 
accessible.

Issues which should be considered in the 
assessment of adaptable housing:

Common facilities and services

Access to and within the adaptable housing unit 
complies with the requirements of the relevant 
provisions of the Australian Standards. This includes 
access to at least one type of each common facility or 
service provided in the development eg. BBQ areas, 
swimming pools, common laundry facilities etc.

Location

Adaptable housing units should be provided in 
convenient locations that are close to facilities such 
as public transport, community facilities and public 
services. Within the development they should be 
located along the accessible path of travel, preferably 
close to the main entrance of the building.

Bathroom facilities

Bathrooms should be large allowing for wheelchair 
access and maneuvering. A bath need not be provided, 
but the shower should allow for chair access. The hand 
wash basin and any shelving should be provided at a 
height that is accessible at both a standing or seated 
position.

Laundry facilities

The laundry should also be large to allow for wheelchair 
access and circulation around the appliances. Washing 
machines and dryers should be front loading, a wall 
mounted dryer is also preferable.

Circulation spaces

Bedrooms and living areas should be an adequate 
size to allow for ease of movement around furniture. 
Doorways and entrances are wide enough to facilitate 
wheelchair access and circulation.

Kitchen facilities

The kitchen should be of a flexible design so that 
modifications can be made if required in the future. 
Cupboard and pantry shelf heights should be adjustable 
to make them easy to reach.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-18 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY C2   Telecommunications and radiocommunications

This provisions in this section apply to 
telecommunications and radio communications 
infrastructure (including broadcasting infrastructure 
covered under the Telecommunications Act 1997 and 
the Radio communications Act 1992), within the City of 
Canada Bay Council Local Government Area (LGA).

The City of Canada Bay Council (Council) is the 
consent authority for facilities that require development 
consent under the terms of the Environmental Planning 
and Assessment Act 1979. These are the facilities that 
are referred to as “not low impact facilities”.

Council does not have regulatory control over “low 
impact facilities”. These are facilities described in 
the Telecommunications (Low Impact Facilities) 
Determination 1997 (LIF Determination), which exempts 
low impact facilities from State and Territory planning 
and environmental laws.

The Telecommunications and Radiocommunication 
controls of this DCP provide:

•  controls for the siting, design and installation of 
telecommunications and radiocommunications 
facilities that require development consent from 
Council; and

•  guidelines for telecommunications carriers for the 

C2.2  What is the purpose of this 

Part?

The purpose of this Part is: 

•  to provide a consistent and integrated planning 
framework that addresses the community’s 
interests in the effective and efficient provision of 
telecommunications and radio communications 
infrastructure so that it achieves environmental, 
economic and social sustainability in the short, 
medium and long term;

•  to provide a consistency of approach which benefits 

carriers, community and councils;

•  to balance the needs of different stakeholders, 

including the community/ industry/ local, state and 
federal governments, and

•  to provide guidance to carriers about Council’s 

requirements for:

a)   site selection

b)   lodging an application

c)   conducting community consultation.

Objectives

The Objectives of this plan are:

siting, design and installation of “low impact” facilities.

O1.  Social

C2.1  To what facilities does this 

Part apply?

This Part of the DCP applies to any fixed transmitter, 
its supporting infrastructure and ancillary development 
under the following legislation:

•  Telecommunications (Low-impact Facilities) 
Determination 1997 [LIF Determination];

•  Telecommunications Act 1997, and

•  Radiocommunications Act 1992.

The DCP does not apply to temporary emergency 
services.

•  to apply a precautionary approach to the deployment 

of radiocommunications infrastructure; and

•  to minimise EMR exposure to the public; and

•  to avoid community sensitive locations; and

•  to ensure that the general public and local 

communities have access to telecommunications 
technology; and

•  to achieve equity for the various stakeholders by 
endeavouring to balance their various needs; and

•  to enable members of the public to adequately 

identify infrastructure and the agencies responsible 
for them; and

•  to provide mechanisms by which information can 
be disseminated to ensure that the community is 
adequately informed and empowered to participate in 
the planning/decision-making process.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-19 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY O2.  Environmental

•  to help implement principles of urban design 
in respect to telecommunications and radio 
communications infrastructure; and

C2.3  Design controls

Visual amenity

•  to promote good industrial design of infrastructure;

Controls

•  to provide infrastructure that is visually compatible 

with surrounding character and locality/visual context 
with particular regard to heritage buildings/areas and 
cultural icons; and

•  to minimise adverse impacts on the natural 

environment; and

•  to assess whether the proposed infrastructure is 

consistent with the amenity of the area; and

•  to restore the site after discontinuation or removal of 

infrastructure.

O3.  Economic

•  to identify the type of land use areas suitable for 
infrastructure in a local government area; and

•  to accommodate the planning requirements of new 

technology; and

•  to provide equitable availability of locations to 

carriers; and

•  to assess whether the proposed infrastructure is 

consistent with permitted development in adjacent 
areas; and

•  to ensure reasonable access to telecommunications 

technology; and

•  to provide certainty for stakeholders and a consistent 

approach to the implementation/assessment of 
telecommunications infrastructure.

O4.  Administrative

•  to ensure that Council obtains information about 

existing and proposed infrastructure to assist with 
strategic planning.

C1. 

  Carriers are to design antennas and 

supporting infrastructure in such a way 
as to minimise or reduce the visual and 
cumulative visual impact from the public 
domain and adjacent areas.

C2. 

  Within the local context, the infrastructure 

design should take account of:

a)   Colour;

b)   Texture;

c)   Form; and

d)   Bulk and scale.

C3. 

Infrastructure should: 

a)   Be well-designed;

b)   Be integrated with the existing building 
structure unless otherwise justified in 
writing to Council;

c)   Have concealed cables where practical 

and appropriate;

d)   Be unobtrusive where possible, and

e)   Be consistent with the character of the 

surrounding area.

A discussion on facility design can be 
found in Low Impact Facilities for Better 
Visual Outcomes that can be accessed at       
www.amta.org.au/mcf

C4. 

Infrastructure should be removed when no 
longer being used.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-20 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
Co-location

Controls

Location

Controls

C5. 

  Co-location is the practice of locating a 
number of different telecommunication 
facilities, often owned by different carriers, 
on one facility or structure.

C6. 

  Co-location may not always be a desirable 

C8. 

  The applicant should demonstrate that, 
in selecting a site, it has adopted a 
precautionary approach in regards to 
minimising EMR exposures consistent with 
Section 5.1 of the ACIF Code.

option where:

C9. 

  Preferred land uses (as determined by this 

a)   Cumulative emissions are a 

consideration;

b)   It may be visually unacceptable;

c)   There are physical and technical limits 
to the amount of infrastructure that 
structures are able to support, or

d)   The required coverage cannot be 

achieved from the location.

C7. 

  Carriers should demonstrate a 

precautionary approach and effective 
measures to minimise the negative impacts 
of co-location.

Council) include:

a)   Industrial areas;

b)   Low-use open space, and

c)   Commercial centres.

C10.    The application should demonstrate 

particular consideration of likely sensitive 
land uses. Sensitive land uses may include 
areas:

a)   Where occupants are located for long 

periods of time (eg residences);

b)   That are frequented by children (eg 
schools and child care centres), and

c)   Where there are people with particular 
health problems (eg hospitals, aged 
care facilities)

C11.    Applicants should locate proposed facilities 

at least 300 metres away from heritage 
conservation areas and heritage items and 
any of the following sensitive land uses:

a)   Areas that are frequented by children 

(eg schools and child care centres); and

b)   Where there are people with particular 
health problems (eg hospitals, aged 
care facilities).

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-21 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY Heritage and Environment

Facility physical design controls

Controls

Controls

C12.   

Infrastructure proposed for areas of 
environmental significance (as defined in 
LIF Determination) require:

C13.   

Infrastructure should be of high quality 
design and construction.

C14.    Proposals should consider the range of 

a)   Development consent under the LIF 

Determination and Council’s planning 
instruments and policies;

b)   The applicant to have regard to avoiding 

or minimising the visual impact of 
any proposed facility on the heritage 
significance of adjacent/adjoining/
surrounding heritage items and 
conservation areas;

c)   The applicant is to provide a heritage 

report/impact statement in accordance 
with Council’s planning instruments and 
policies; 

d)   The applicant to have regard to avoiding 
or minimising the physical impact of any 
proposed facility on endemic flora and 
fauna; and

e)   For proposals within heritage 

conservation and/or special character 
areas consideration should be given 
to the impact of the proliferation of 
telecommunication facilities on the 
integrity of the heritage conservation 
and/or special character areas.

available alternate infrastructure including 
new technologies, to minimise unnecessary 
or incidental EMR emissions and 
exposures, as required under Section 5.2.3 
of the ACIF Code.

C15.    The plan for the facility should include 

measures to restrict public access to the 
antenna(s). Approaches to the antenna(s) 
should contain appropriate signs warning of 
EMR and providing contact details for the 
facility(ies) owner/manager. 

C16.    The minimum requisites that should apply 
where relevant are the BCA for purposes 
of construction and the relevant exposure 
levels as directed by the Australian 
Communications Authority (ACA). The 
applicant should provide Council with 
certification about the standards with which 
the facility will comply.

Facility health controls

Controls

C17.    The applicant is to demonstrate the 

precautions it has taken to minimise EMR 
exposures to the public

C18.    The applicant is to provide documentation 
to show that the proposed facility complies 
with the relevant Australian exposure 
standard as specified by the ACA

C19.    The applicant is to provide a mapped 

analysis of cumulative EMR effect of the 
proposal.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-22 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY C3   Vehicle and bicycle parking rates and bicycle storage facilities

C3.1  Vehicle Parking

Council’s car parking controls seek to limit car parking 
in locations that have good accessibility to public 
transport. This approach recognises that people 
will continue to use and depend on cars but this 
dependence reduces in more walkable neighbourhoods 
with good access to public transport. 

General

Controls

C1. 

  Parking should not detract from the 

streetscape qualities, while meeting the 
needs of visitors and employees in the 
commercial areas.

Car parking needs to be accessible and convenient. It 
should also be designed so that it does not detract from 
the amenity of the streetscape.

Car spaces

Controls

Objectives

O1.  To identify the maximum number of car parking 

spaces that may be provided to service particular 
uses of land.

O2.  To provide less resident and visitor parking 

in localities that are identified as having good 
accessibility to public transport.

O3.  To minimise vehicular traffic generated by 

development.

O4.  To ensure parking areas do not detract from the 

streetscape.

C2. 

  Parking spaces should be a minimum of 
5.4m x 2.4m, with an additional 300mm 
either side where enclosed (i.e. 5.4m x 
3.0m).

C3. 

  Car parking for people with disabilities 

should have a minimum dimension of 3.6m 
x 6m.

Residential

Controls

C4. 

  Car Parking is to be provided in 
accordance with Table C-B. 

C5. 

  All visitor parking should be provided 

off-street and behind the front setback.

C6. 

  Visitor parking spaces should be 

conveniently located, identified as such, 
and accessible to the general public. They 
should not be located behind any security 
grill or gate.

C7. 

  Dedicated disabled parking spaces should 
be identified by a clearly visible sign with 
the international symbol of access for 
people with disabilities.

C8. 

  Dedicated disabled parking spaces should 
be located close to wheelchair accessible 
entrance lifts.

C9. 

If relevant, objectives and controls in 
section E3.9 Parking and access also 
apply. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-23 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
Commercial

Controls

Industrial

Controls

C10.    Parking should not detract from the 

C16.    All vehicles should be able to enter and 

streetscape qualities, while meeting the 
needs of visitors and employees in the 
commercial areas.

C11.    On site car parking should be provided 

below ground or located within the building 
and well screened.

C12.    Vehicular access ways are designed to 

be integrated with the building and of 
minimum height and width.

C13.   

Loading facilities should be provided in 
accordance with the current RTA “Guide to 
Traffic Generating Developments” and AS 
2890.2. 

C14.   

The provision of parking for different types 
of development should be in accordance 
with Table C-C.

C15.    Development should be in accordance 

with the provisions of State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Infrastructure) 2007.

leave the site in a forward direction. 

C17.    Car parking areas are to be landscaped 

with trees and shrubs.

C18.    Separation of service areas (loading/

unloading) and parking areas is required.

C19.    Development should be in accordance 

with the provisions of State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Infrastructure) 2007.

C20.    All loading and unloading operations 

should be carried out wholly within the 
confines of the site at all times. 

C21.   

Loading facilities should be provided in 
accordance with the current RTA “Guide to 
Traffic Generating Developments” and AS 
2890.2.

C22.    All loading docks, car parking spaces and 
access driveways should be kept clear of 
goods at all times and should not be used 
for storage purposes including garbage 
storage. 

C23.    Parking provision should be in accordance 

with Table C-D.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-24 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY Accessible Parking

Controls

C24.    Parking provision should be in accordance 

with Table C-E.

Adaptable Housing 

Controls

C25.    Where a residential development provides 
adaptable housing units in accordance with 
this plan, one accessible car parking space 
should be provided for every adaptable 
unit. This is in addition to any accessible 
parking required by this DCP.

Credit for car parking in existing developments

Controls

C26.    Council will apply the relevant car parking 

rate to the entire floor area for new 
developments and developments proposing 
substantial alterations and additions to 
existing buildings.

C27.    A credit will be provided for car parking 

spaces when calculating required parking 
numbers for developments involving a 
change of use of an existing building. The 
credit shall be calculated on the basis of 
the demand generated by the existing use 
that is proposed to be changed.

C28.    A credit for car parking spaces will be 

provided when calculating required parking 
numbers for developments involving minor 
alterations and additions to an existing 
building. The credit shall be calculated on 
the basis of the demand generated by the 
existing use carried out in the building that 
is proposed to be altered or extended.

C3.2  Bicycle parking

Objectives

O1.  To encourage the use of bicycles by residents, 
employees and visitors of Canada Bay for 
recreational use and as an alternative mode of 
transport.

O2.  To ensure that residential developments with 

more than 3 dwellings and non-residential 
developments, contain sufficient and adequate 
bicycle parking and storage facilities.

O3.  To ensure bicycle parking and storage facilities 
are designed and located to provide easy, 
convenient and safe access to buildings.

O4.  To ensure bicycle parking and storage facilities 

are designed and located to minimise conflict with 
pedestrians and other traffic.

O5.  To ensure that bicycle storage and parking 

facilities are provided at end of trip for cyclists 

Controls

C1. 

Bicycle parking and storage facilities 
should be provided to allow parking or 
storage of a minimum number of bicycles, 
in accordance with Table C-F.

C2. 

  Bicycle parking should be made available 

to customers and staff

For all residential, commercial and industrial 
development, fractions should be rounded up in the 
calculation of the required number of spaces.

Council may waive the requirement for bicycle storage 
facilities for other non-residential development if it is 
satisfied that the requirement presents an unreasonable 
burden on the development.

References to areas are to gross floor area, unless 
stated otherwise.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-25 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY C9. 

  Access paths to bicycle storage or parking 
facilities should be provided so that the 
envelope shown in figure 3.1 in AS 2890.3 
will fit when projected along the access 
path. 

C10.    Where an access path to a bicycle storage 

or parking facility includes stairs, such 
stairs should include a bicycle wheeling 
ramp in accordance with figure 7.12 in the 
Austroads Guide to Traffic Engineering 
Practice (Part 14 Bicycles). The gradient of 
the ramp should not exceed 25%.

C11.    Unacceptable bicycle parking and storage 

facilities are facilities where:

a)   Only a wheel can be secured but not 

the bicycle frame;

b)   The device does not provide stability for 
the bicycle and may result in damage to 
the bicycle; and

c)   The device has a slot in the ground 

which may get dirty and difficult to use 
over time.

C12.    Directional signs advising the public of the 

location of bicycle parking and storage 
areas should be harmoniously designed 
and erected to assist both the facilitation 
and promotion of the use of these facilities. 

Other non-residential development

Controls

C3. 

  Bicycle storage facilities may be provided 

as fully enclosed individual lockers 
(referred to in AS 2890.3 as Class 1 
facilities) or as locked compounds (referred 
to in AS 2890.3 as Class 2 facilities), 
depending on the type of development 
and practicality of access to the facility. 
Compounds should be fitted with a 
sufficient number of devices to which 
stored bicycles can be secured (referred 
to in AS 2890.3 as Class 3 facilities). 
Bicycle storage facilities should be covered 
to provide weather protection. A private 
garage is deemed to be the equivalent of 
an individual locker space.

C4. 

  Showers and lockers should be provided 

close to secure bicycle storage facilities 
within new commercial and industrial 
developments.

C5. 

  Bicycle storage facilities should generally 

be designed in accordance with paragraph 
2.2 of AS 2890.3. 

C6. 

C7. 

C8. 

  Bicycle parking facilities on private land 
should be located so that the minimum 
clearance between a parked bicycle and 
the edge of a motor vehicle traffic lane is 
600mm and 1000mm where the average 
traffic speed exceeds 60km/h.

  Bicycle parking facilities should be located 
so that the minimum clearance (for a 
pedestrian pass) between a parked bicycle 
and any other obstruction is 1200mm.

  Bicycle parking facilities should generally 
be designed in accordance with figure 
B3 in AS 2890.3. The provision of 
weather protection for bicycle parking is 
encouraged.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-26 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY Table C-B   Parking Requirements:  Dwelling houses, Dual occupancies, Residential flat buildings,              

Multi dwelling housing and Shop top housing

Dwelling houses, attached dual occupancies and detached dual occupancies

Dwelling houses

Dual occupancies

Secondary dwellings

Minimum of One (1) car parking space 

Maximum of Two (2) car parking spaces

Maximum One (1) car parking space per dwelling

Nil space

Residential flat building, Multi-dwelling housing and residential component of shop top housing

Maximum parking rates in B4 Mixed Use Zones

Number of bedrooms

1 bedroom apartments

2 bedroom apartments

3 bedroom apartments

Visitors

Number of car parking spaces

0.6 spaces

0.9 spaces

1.4 spaces

1 space per 5 apartments

Minimum parking rates within 800 metres of a railway station or 400 metres of B3 Commercial Core and  
B4 Mixed Use zones

Number of bedrooms

1 bedroom apartments

2 bedroom apartments

3 bedroom apartments

Visitors

Number of car parking spaces

0.6 spaces

0.9 spaces

1.4 spaces

1 space per 5 apartments

Minimum parking rates for all other areas

Dwelling type/ size 

Number of car parking spaces

Small dwelling

Medium dwelling

Large dwelling

Visitors

1 space

1.5 spaces

2 spaces

0.5 spaces per dwelling

Note: Any parking in excess of the above requirements will be counted as Gross Floor Area (GFA) (refer to definition in 
Canada Bay LEP). In calculating the total number of car parking spaces required for a development, the total should:

a)   Be rounded up if the fraction of the total calculation is equal or more than half (0.5 of a space); and

b)   Include a room that is capable of being converted to a bedroom where calculations involve multi dwelling housing 

and residential flat buildings. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-27 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
Table C-C   Parking Requirements: Development in mixed use areas                                                               

and Neighbourhood Centres

Land use

Accommodation

Motels

Parking requirements

1 space for each unit +1 space per 2 employees

if restaurant included then add the greater of:

•  15 spaces per 100m2 GFA of restaurant/function room, or

•  1 space per 3 seats

Hotels

Comparisons should be drawn with similar developments

Office and Business 

Office Premises

Business Premises

Retail

Shops

Service stations and 
convenience stores

1 space per 40m2 GFA

1 space per 40m2 GFA

1 space per 40m2 GLFA

Requirements are additive:

•  6 spaces per work bay

•  5 spaces per 100m2 GFA of convenience store

If restaurant present, the greater of:

•  15 spaces per 100m2 GFA, or 1 space per 3 seats

Drive-in take-away food outlets Developments with no on-site seating: 12 spaces per 100m2 GFA

Developments with on-site seating: 12 spaces per 100m2 GFA

or greater of: 

•  1 space per 5 seats (internal and external), or

•  1 space per 2 seats (internal)

Developments with on-site seating and drive through facilities greater of:

•  1 space per 2 seats (internal), or

•  1 space per 3 seats (internal and external), plus queuing area for 5-12 cars

Restaurants, Cafes, 
Take-away food & drink 
premises

Whichever is the greater of:

•  1 space per 6m² of serviced area, or

•  1 space per 4 seats.

A parking free threshold of 20 seats and 30m2 serviced area shall apply to all 
restaurants, cafes & take-away food and drink premises (to which this DCP applies) 
in B1 Neighbourhood Centre and B4 Mixed Use zones, excluding those in the areas 
listed below.

A parking free threshold of 40 seats and 60m2 serviced area shall apply to 
restaurants in the following (commercial centres) B1 Neighbourhood Centre and B4 
Mixed Use zones:

•  Victoria Road, Drummoyne (inc. Lyons Rd to Bayswater Street)

•  Great North Road, Five Dock (excluding Wareemba/ Abbotsford)

•  Majors Bay Road, Concord

•  Parramatta Road, Concord (No B1 or B4 on Parramatta Rd)

•  Parramatta Road, Five Dock (No B1 or B4 on Parramatta Rd)

•  Concord Road, Concord West

•  Concord Road, North Strathfield

*Where variation to the above criteria is sought, refer to Additional Criteria below.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-28 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY Land use

Footpath Dining

Residential

Parking requirements

Nil.

As per Table C-B

Car tyre retail outlets

Whichever is the greater of:

Roadside stalls

Markets

Video Stores

Pub

Vehicle Showrooms

•  3 spaces per 100m2 GFA, or

•  3 spaces per work bay

4 spaces

2.5 spaces per stall (customers only)

6.1 spaces per 100m2 GFA

Comparisons should be drawn with similar developments

0.75 spaces per 100m2 site area + 6 spaces per work bay (for vehicle servicing 
facilities

Drive-in liquor stores

Comparisons should be drawn with similar developments

Plant nurseries

Whichever is greater of:

•  15 spaces, or

•  0.5 spaces per 100m2 of site area

Recreational and Tourist Facilities

Recreational facilities

•  Squash courts

•  Tennis courts

•  Bowling alleys

•  Bowling greens

•  Gymnasiums

Marinas

3 spaces per court

3 spaces per court

3 spaces per alley

30 spaces for first green

+ 15 spaces for each additional green

7.5 spaces per 100m2 GFA (desirable)
4.5 spaces per 100m2 GFA (minimum)

If a survey of a similar existing development has not been undertaken, the following 
figures may serve as a general guide:

•  0.6 spaces per wet berth

•  0.2 spaces per dry storage berth

•  0.2 spaces per swing mooring

•  0.5 spaces per marina employee

Health and Community Services

Health Consulting Rooms

Comparisons should be drawn with similar development

Medical centres

1 space for each medical practitioner, plus

1 space for each 2 non medical practitioner employees; plus

1 patient space for every 2 specialists.

Child care centres

1 space for every 4 children in attendance

Hospitals

Comparisons should be drawn with similar developments

Source: Based on RTA Guide to Traffic Generating Developments 2002

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-29 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY Note: 

1.  Parking spaces, unless stipulated otherwise, are 
for cars and depending on land use type, parking 
for delivery/service vehicles, courier vehicles and 
bicycles should also be provided.

2.  Parking free threshold: means an area expressed in 
both number of seats and serviced area up to which 
on-site parking does not need to be provided. The 
standard parking rate applies to any area and seats 
in excess of the threshold.

3.  Serviced area: means the physical area within the 

restaurant or café which is accessible to the public, 
but excluding toilets and corridors. Areas such as 
the kitchen, or behind counters, or display areas 
should not be included as serviced area.

4.  To calculate car parking requirements, applicants 
must establish the number of spaces required by 
the proposed development calculated from Tables 
C-B to C-E in Part C3. The threshold can then 
be subtracted from this figure and the balance 
provided.

5.  Additional Criteria - Restaurants & Cafes In 

exceptional circumstances, Council may allow 
a variation to these requirements where it is 
demonstrated by the applicant that the proposed 
use would not have any adverse impacts on the 
surrounding residential amenity in relation to car 
parking availability.

To achieve this variation, the following criteria would 
need to be demonstrated to the satisfaction of Council:

A Parking Impact Study prepared by a qualified traffic 
consultant shall be provided by the applicant, which 
demonstrates that the shortfall of parking spaces 
created by the application is able to be accommodated 
within 200m (radius) of the subject site. The Parking 
Impact Study would need to provide the following:

a)   Total number of available spaces within 200m of the 

subject site;

b)   Parking availability within the study area over 

operating hours (including hours open for staff and 
customers);

c)   Demonstrate how the parking shortfall of the 

proposal can be satisfied by the available parking 
spaces identified in parts (a) and (b) above.

d)   Demonstrate that the amenity of the surrounding 

residential areas would not be adversely impacted 
by any additional on-street parking.

Note: Within the Study, the applicant may demonstrate 
alternative options as to how the proposed use/
development mitigates potential impacts of additional 
car parking requirements. An example of how this may 
be achieved includes:

•  Demonstrating that parking facilities associated with 
alternative time-of-day uses can be utilised for the 
use of the restaurant/café customers.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-30 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY Table C-D   Parking Requirements: Development in Industrial Areas

Land use

Industry

Factories

Parking requirements

1.3 spaces per 100m2 GFA

Warehouses

1.5 spaces per 100m2 of total GLA.

1.8 spaces per 100m2 gross leasable office/showroom area plus 1.2 spaces per 
100m2 of gross leasable factory/warehouse area (where information on components 
of development is available).

Bulky goods retail stores

Comparisons should be drawn with similar development

Road Transport Facilities

Road Transport Terminals

Surveys should be undertaken of similar developments

Container depots

Surveys should be undertaken of similar developments

Truck stops

1 truck parking space per motel unit + 1 car space per 2 employees

For restaurant facilities, the greater of: 

•  15 spaces per 100m2 GFA, or

•  1 space per 3 seats

Other

Caravan parks

1 space per caravan site

Source: Based on RTA Guide to Traffic Generating Developments 2002

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-31 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY Table C-E   Accessible Parking Requirements

BCA Classification of the building to which the parking 
is associated

Parking Requirements Number  
of spaces required (Table D3.5 of the BCA)

Class 3

Boarding houses, guest houses, hostel, backpackers 
accommodation, or the residential part of a hotel or 
motel

Class 5, 7, 8 and 9c

Class 6

To be calculated by multiplying the total number of car 
parking spaces by the:

a)   Percentage of accessible sole-occupancy units to the 

total number of sole-occupancy units; or

b)   Percentage of beds to which access for people with 
disabilities is provided to the total number of beds 
provided.

The calculated number to be taken to the next whole figure.

1 space for every 100 car parking spaces or part thereof

1 space for every 100 car parking spaces or part thereof

a) up to 1000 car parking spaces; and

1 space for every 50 car parking spaces or part thereof

b) for each additional 100 car parking spaces or part 
thereof in excess of 1000 car parking spaces

1 space

Class 9a

(a) Hospital (non-outpatient area)

1 space for every 100 car parking spaces or part thereof

(b) Hospital (outpatient area)

1 space for every 50 car parking spaces or part thereof

up to 1000 car parking spaces; and

for each additional 100 car parking spaces or part 
thereof in excess of 1000 car parking spaces

1 space

Nursing home

1 space for every 100 car parking spaces or part thereof

Clinic or day surgery not forming part of a hospital

1 space for every 100 car parking spaces or part thereof

Class 9b

(a) School

1 space for every 100 car parking spaces or part thereof

(b) Other assembly buildings

1 space for every 50 car parking spaces or part thereof

up to 1000 car parking spaces; and

for each additional 100 car parking spaces or part 
thereof in excess of 1000 car parking spaces

1 space

Source: Based on RTA Guide to Traffic Generating Developments 2002

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-32 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY Table C-F   Bicycle Parking and Storage Requirements 

Residential development (including boarding houses and serviced apartments)

Development type

Bicycle storage facility

Bicycle parking facility

Residential development with 3 or more 
dwellings

Other development providing longer term 
residential accommodation such as boarding 
houses and serviced apartments

1 space for every dwelling

1 space for every 12 dwellings

(minimum 1 space)

1 space for every 4 
lodgings/apartments

1 space for every 16 lodgings/
apartments

Commercial and industrial development

Development type

Cafe

Consulting Rooms

Hotel

Heavy Industry

Light Industry

Motel

Office/Commercial

Restaurant

Shop

Showroom

Note:

Bicycle storage facility

Bicycle parking facility

1 per 25m2 public area

1 per 8 practitioners

1 per 4 practitioners

1 per 25m2 bar floor area and 1 per 
100m2 lounge or beer garden

1 per 150m2

1 per 100m2

1 per 40 rooms

1 per 200m2

See note 2

See note 2

See note 2

1 per 750m2

1 per 100m2 public area 

2 per restaurant

1 per 300m2

1 per 500m2

1 per 750m2 sales area

1 per 1000m2 sales area

1.  The above requirements only apply to new commercial 
and industrial developments. They do not apply to 
developments which are changes of use or which are 
extensions of existing development or which could have 
been undertaken as Exempt or Complying development 
but for criteria such as heritage listing and the like.

2.  Where the table does not provide a standard, the Council 
will make an assessment of the required number of 
spaces based on:

a)   Expected number of employees, and their likely or 

desired use of bicycles for travel to and from work; and

b)   Expected number of visitors, and their likely or desired 

use of bicycles to visit the development.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-33 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY C4   Waste Management

Objectives

C5. 

O1.  Assist in achieving Federal and State Government 
waste minimisation targets in accordance with 
regional waste plans.

O2.  Minimise overall environmental impacts of 

waste and foster the principles of ecologically 
sustainable development (ESD).

O3.  Facilitate source separation and provide design 
standards that complement waste collection and 
management services offered by Council and 
private service providers.

Source separation facilities shall be 
provided on building sites so that different 
waste streams may be easily separated 
during construction and demolition to 
encourage the re-use and recycling 
of materials. The source separation 
facilities are to be clearly indicated on the 
drawings. Tipping dockets for disposal 
and recovery of all wastes are required to 
be held on site during this phase and are 
subject to auditing and/or inspection by 
Council.

C4.1  General Controls

C6. 

In the design of buildings waste should be 
minimised by:

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

On site storage for waste and recycling 
facilities must be provided in designated 
areas for all new developments. The 
minimum storage space required is to 
be based on 120 litres of garbage and 
recycling generated per unit per week. 
The area should be located so as not 
to cause offence to adjoining property 
owners or occupiers with regard to smell, 
visual appearance, noise disturbance and 
traffic.

Source separation facilities and containers 
shall be provided in kitchens for waste to 
be divided into separate waste streams to 
encourage the composting and recycling 
of materials.

Common composting facilities should 
be provided at accessible locations 
away from dwellings to every residential 
development for garden waste and 
organic kitchen waste.

Consideration should be given to bin 
storage space for garden organics that 
are not able to be composted on site 
ie. thick branches as garden organics 
cannot be disposed of in Council serviced 
garbage bins.

C7. 

•  Matching building dimensions to 

standard sizes of building materials;

•  Using recycled materials;

•  Selecting materials that can be re-used 

or recycled in the future; and

•  Utilising component parts that may be 

easily replaced.

Plans and drawings of the proposed 
development that highlight the location 
of and space allocated to the waste 
management facilities and the nominated 
waste collection point must be included in 
the Waste Management Plan. The path 
of access for both users and collection 
vehicles must also be highlighted.

C4.2  Single Dwellings and Dual 

Occupancies

Controls

C1. 

Residential development are to provide 
storage space for garbage, recyclables, 
and garden organics in accordance with 
the following:

Allocated 1x 120L Garbage Bin (1 per 
dwelling), 1 x 240L Recycling Bin (1 per 
dwelling) and 1 x 240L Garden Organics 
(1 per dwelling).

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-34 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Space Dimensions for Garbage Bins

C3. 

Height

Width

Depth

120 L

240 L

980mm

1140mm

500mm

580mm

540mm

715mm

Controls

C2. 

C3. 

Space must be allocated within each 
property boundary behind the building line 
for storing Council specified waste and 
recycling bins.

The garbage/recycling storage area shall 
be constructed of brick or other approved 
masonry material, have a concrete floor at 
appropriate level approved by Council and 
be suitably graded to allow drainage.

C4.3  Multi Dwelling Residential 

Development

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

Residential developments are to provide 
storage space for garbage, recyclables 
and garden organics in accordance with 
the following:

Allocated 1x 240L Garbage Bin (per 2 
residential units), 1 x 240L Recycling Bin 
(per 2 residential units) and 1 x 240L 
Garden Organics (per 10 residential units 
up to a maximum of 20 residential units): 
and

Above 20 units on application to Council.

In multi-dwelling residential development 
containing 20 or more dwellings, a bulk 
garbage and recycling collection service 
is required. Council supplies 660 ltr bulk 
recycling and garbage bins. Provision 
must be made for waste collection 
vehicles to enter and service all bins on 
site. Bins cannot be presented on the 
pedestrian footpath for servicing.

Garbage chutes are required for all 
buildings more than 3 storeys in height. 
All garbage chutes are required to 
discharge into a compaction unit. 
Compaction units shall not compact 
above the ratio of 2:1. Consideration 
should be given to a chute system that is 
able to be adapted in the future or space 
allocated for an additional chute system 
to be installed, to accept recyclables. It is 
anticipated that future improvements in 
resource recovery technologies will allow 
recyclables to be recovered via a chute 
system.

Garbage chute outlets must discharge 
into the central waste and recycling room. 
The building caretaker should not be 
required to transfer waste from one side 
of the building to the other in order to get 
it from the chute outlet to the waste and 
recycling room. All transferring of waste 
from the central waste and recycling 
room to the collection point must occur 
underground.

C4. 

Spatial requirements

Controls

C5. 

Space must be allocated and a receptacle 
supplied inside each unit for waste and 
recycling, each with the capacity to store 
2 days’ worth of waste and recycling.

Waste Service compartments

Controls

C6. 

In buildings where a chute system is 
required to be installed, a waste service 
compartment must be provided on each 
floor to contain the garbage chute hopper 
and at a minimum, storage space for 
2 days recyclables per unit (34 ltrs) 
generated on that floor.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-35 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C7. 

C8. 

The waste service compartment must 
have enough space to allow easy use 
of the chute hopper and manoeuvring of 
no more than 2 x 240 litre recycling bins. 
Doors should open outwards to allow 
maximum storage unless prevented by 
BCA requirements. 

The space required to collect recyclables 
within the service compartment will 
depend upon the number of units on each 
floor and how frequently the recyclables 
are transferred to the waste and recycling 
room. It is recommended that recyclables 
are transferred daily, however this 
arrangement will only work when there is 
a full-time cleaner or maintenance person 
employed and they are instructed to 
empty recycling from waste compartment 
rooms. A service elevator should be 
considered.

Centralised garbage and recycling room

Controls

C9. 

A centralised waste and recycling room 
must be provided in an area that is 
accessible to the users and easy for 
servicing. The waste and recycling room 
must be located within the underground 
carpark or basement. The clearance to 
the garbage room must be no less than 
3.8 m high to allow waste collection 
vehicles to service bins on site. Waste 
collection vehicles must move in a 
forward direction at all times. Where it is 
not possible to provide this level of access 
for waste collection vehicles, an alternate 
area will be required for bin servicing and/
or storage. The alternate area must be 
located on the property boundary line, 
have a layback of suitable size and be 
constructed to accommodate collection 
vehicles. For OH & S reasons access 
to the alternate servicing/storage room 
for servicing shall be from the layback 
to ensure bins are serviced with minimal 
handling.

C10.   

C11.   

In high rise residential developments 
where there is a full time caretaker on 
site, it is advisable that access to waste 
facilities by residents is limited to only the 
service compartments located on each 
floor, and the bulky items storage area. 
This is to help prevent contamination of 
recycling bins. Council will not collect 
recycling bins that are contaminated with 
unacceptable materials.

A room or caged area must be allocated 
for the storage of discarded bulky 
household items awaiting collection 
and should be incorporated within the 
waste and recycling room. The space 
shall be adequate in size to meet the 
needs of the residents and shall be 
divided into sections ie. metals, e-waste, 
mattresses to maximise resource 
recovery. The ongoing management of 
disposal/recovery of these items is to 
be addressed in the waste management 
plan. The allocated space must be a 
minimum of 5m³. Consideration should 
be given to allocating space for a charity 
clothing bin, as well as printer cartridge, 
toner bottle and mobile phone recovery 
bins as these items are able to be 
recovered by the private sector at no 
charge. Implementation of these types of 
recovery options will reduce the overall 
waste generated in these development 
sites.

Residential amenity

Controls

C12.   

Residential dwellings must be adequately 
insulated from noise and smell if they are 
adjacent to or above:

•  chutes or waste storage facilities, or

•  chute discharge, or

•  waste compaction equipment, or

•  waste collection vehicle access points.

C13.    Where possible, chutes should not be 

situated adjacent to habitable rooms due 
to the noise from hopper use and waste 
falling down the shaft.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-36 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
Waste Management

Controls

C14.   

C15.   

The Waste Management Plan must 
describe how the waste management 
system will work and who is responsible 
for the transfer of waste and recycling for 
each stage of the process.

Signage in waste storage compartments 
must encourage residents to wrap 
garbage prior to placement in chutes, 
specify that no dangerous or bulky 
items be placed in chutes and provide 
information about what is acceptable in 
the recycling system.

C4.4  Controls for Mixed Use 

Developments

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

  Where a development mixes residential 
with commercial uses, the waste 
handling, storage and collection system 
for residential waste (from the residential 
area) and commercial waste (from the 
commercial area) are to be completely 
separate and self-contained. They must 
have separate keys and locking systems.

The Waste Management Plan prepared 
for a mixed use development must 
identify the collection points and 
management systems for both residential 
and commercial waste streams.

The waste handling and management 
system for each component of the 
mixed development must comply with 
the relevant provisions of this DCP (eg. 
Separate residential and commercial 
collection areas).

Sufficient space must be allocated in 
each waste and recycling storage room 
to store the amount of waste likely to be 
generated in each respective part of the 
development.

C5. 

C6. 

C7. 

C8. 

Each waste and recycling room must be 
located in an area that is easily accessible 
for waste services collection vehicles and 
convenient to the users.

Measures must be taken to ensure that 
noise and odour from the commercial 
waste facilities does not impact on 
residents.

Commercial tenants in a mixed 
development must be actively 
discouraged from using the residential 
waste facilities.

The waste storage and recycling 
area shall be designed to enable 
each separately tenanted or occupied 
area within the building or complex 
to be provided with a designated 
and clearly identified space for the 
housing of sufficient commercial bins to 
accommodate the quantity of waste and 
recycling material likely to be generated.

Commercial/Industrial Premises

Controls

C9. 

C10.   

C11.   

A waste and recycling room must be 
provided on each floor level within a retail 
development. The waste and recycling 
area must have the capacity to store at 
least one (1) day’s volume of waste and 
recycling likely to be generated on that 
floor level. Refer to Table C-G for waste 
generation rates.

Material from the waste and recycling room 
must be transferred to the centralised 
waste and recycling room or holding area 
daily or more frequently, as required.

If more than 10m³ of non-compacted waste 
and recycling is calculated to be generated 
per day (as described in the Waste 
Management Plan), the central waste and 
recycling room must be separate from the 
goods receivable dock or service vehicle 
bay area.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-37 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Controls

C12.   

C13.   

C14.   

C15.   

C16.   

C17.   

C18.   

C19.   

The waste and recycling area should 
be flexible in design so as to allow for a 
variety of bin sizes and types and future 
changes in the use of the commercial/
industrial units.

The waste collection area shall be 
covered, drained to the sewer as per a 
Sydney Water Trade Waste Agreement 
and may need bunding depending on 
the material to be stored within the area.

All development applications involving 
demolition or construction are to be 
accompanied by a completed Waste 
Management Plan.

A Waste Management Plan form may 
be obtained from Council’s website or 
Council's Customer Service Centre.

Sufficient space shall be provided 
on-site for waste separation.

A well designed and located waste 
storage and recycling area and/or 
garbage and recycling room shall be 
provided on-site.

Clear access for staff and collection 
services is to be provided.

Facilities are to be carefully sited and 
well designed to not have an adverse 
impact on adjoining premises or 
amenity.

Where multiple occupancy (such as a 
suite of shops or an office complex) is 
proposed, communal facilities may be 
appropriate, particularly where:

a)   The design makes it difficult for all 
units to have access to a collection 
point; or

b)   Site characteristics restrict entry of 

vehicles.

C20.   

C21.   

C22.   

C23.   

C24.   

C25.   

C26.   

The waste storage and recycling area 
shall have a concrete floor, suitably 
graded to allow drainage and be 
designed to enable each separately 
tenanted or separately occupied area 
within the building or complex to be 
provided with a designated and clearly 
identified space for commercial waste 
containers.

The waste storage and recycling area 
should be sited to allow easy vehicular 
access (preferably from the rear of the 
property) and opportunities for screen 
landscaping.

A building containing more than three 
storeys shall be provided with an 
acceptable method for transporting 
waste from each level to a garbage and 
recycling room. Space must be provided 
on each floor for temporary storage of 
waste material and recyclables. Ongoing 
management should be detailed in the 
Waste Management Plan.

For offices and commercial premises, 
particular attention should be paid to 
paper, cardboard, glass, aluminium, 
steel and plastic (1-7) recycling, with 
source separation at the waste storage 
and recycling area or garbage and 
recycling room.

For restaurants and other premises 
which deal with perishable food stuffs, 
special attention should be paid to 
food scrap generation. Specialised 
containment should be provided and a 
regular/daily collection service arranged.

Refrigerated garbage rooms should 
be provided when large volumes, 
perishables (such as seafood) and 
infrequent collection is proposed.

Grease traps must be provided, where 
appropriate. Contact should be made 
with Sydney Water to obtain their trade 
waste requirements.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-38 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY C27.   

C28.   

Where special waste material is to be 
generated by professional services such 
as but not limited to medical centres, 
dentists and aged care facilities, 
special arrangements will be required 
which should be detailed in the Waste 
Management Plan.

Commercial developments are to 
provide storage space for garbage and 
recyclables in accordance with Table 
C-G below.

Table C-G   Waste generation rates for Mixed Use Areas and Neighbourhood Centres

Type of premises
Backpackers accomodation

Waste generation
40L/occupant/week

Boarding house, guest house

60L/occupant/week

Food Premises

Butcher

Delicatessen

Fish shop

Greengrocer

Restaurants

Supermarket

Takeaway

Hotel

150L/100m2 floor area/day

150L/100m2 floor area/day

150L/100m2 floor area/day

240L/100m2 floor area/day

10L/1.5m2 floor area/day

240L/100m2 floor area/day

150L/100m2 floor area/day

5L/bed/day

50L/100m2/bar area/day

10L/1.5m2 of dining area/day

Recycling generation
20L/occupant/week

20L/occupant/week

120L/100m2 floor area/day

120L/100m2

120L/100m2 floor area/day

120L/100m2 floor area/day

2L/1.5m2 floor area/day dining

240L/100m2 floor area/day

120L/100m2 floor area/day

120L/100m2/of bar and dining areas/day

Licensed club

50L/100m2 of bar area/day

120L/100m2 of bar and dining areas/day

Motel (without public restaurant)

5L/bed/day

1L/bed/day

10L/1.5m2 of dining area/day

10L/1.5m2 of dining area/day

Offices

10L/100m2 floor area/day

40L/100m2 floor area/day

Retail (other than food sales)

Shop less than 100m2 floor area

50L/100m2 floor area/day

Shop over 100m2 floor area

50L/100m2 floor area/day

Showrooms

40L/100m2 floor area/day

25L/100m2 floor area/day

50L/100m2 floor area/day

10L/100m2 floor area/day

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-39 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY C5   Preservation of trees and vegetation

C5.1  Pruning and removal of trees

Objectives

O1.  The aim of the DCP is to conserve and enhance 
the treescape and environmental amenity of the 
City of Canada Bay.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

A person must not ringbark, cut down, 
top, lop, remove, injure or wilfully destroy 
any tree or other vegetation to which this 
development control plan applies if:

a)   The tree has a height of, or greater 

than, four (4) metres;

b)   The tree has a trunk girth of, or 

greater than, 500mm at any point; or

c)   The tree is a cycad or mangrove, 
irrespective of its dimensions

without a permit granted by the Council.

If the tree or other vegetation is or 
forms part of a Heritage Item or is within 
a Heritage Conservation Area, then 
development consent is required.

Refer to clause 5.9 of the Canada Bay 
LEP.

Exemptions: A person will be exempt from 
the prohibition stated in C1 above with 
respect to particular tree works if Council 
establishes that:

a)   The tree was dead or that the works 
were limited to the removal of dead 
branches;

b)   The tree was one of the following 
exempt species (provided the tree 
is not listed as a Heritage Item in an 
environmental planning instrument – in 
which case the prohibition applies):

Alnus jorullensis

Evergreen Alder

Bambusa spp

Bamboo

Celtris occidentalis

Sugarberry

Erythrina x sykesii

Indian Coral

Erythrina crista-galli

Coral Tree

Ficus elastica

Ligustrum spp

Nerium oleander

Olea Africana

Populus spp

Salix spp

Schefflera spp

Syagrus 
romanzoffianum

Rubber Tree

Privet

Oleander

African olive

Poplar

Willow

Umbrella Tree

Queen/Cocos 
Palm

Toxicodendron spp

Rhus Tree

Camphor Laurel 
or Liquidamber

Lilly Pilly or 
Blueberry Ash

Cinnamomum 
camphora (Camphor 
Laurel) or Liquidamber 
spp (Liquidamber) 
where the outside edge 
of the trunk of such 
tree is located within 
3 metres of any single 
storey dwelling (not 
being an out building 
eg. Garage, carport, 
shed, etc).

A fruit tree grown for 
the purposes of fruit 
or fodder production 
except Acmena spp 
(Lilly Pilly), Syzygium 
spp (Lilly Pilly) or 
Elaeocarpus spp 
(Blueberry Ash).

c)   The tree is a declared noxious weed in 
the local government area of the City of 
Canada Bay under the Noxious Weed 
Act 1993; and

d)   The tree works were limited to the 

maintenance of a minimum clearance 
of five hundred (500) millimetres from 
domestic service leads as specified 
by Energy Australia, provided that the 
works were carried out by a qualified or 
experienced Arborist or Tree surgeon, 
in accordance with the Australian 
Standards for the Pruning of Amenity 
Trees AS 4373-1996.

Note: Definitions for Council, Injuring, Removal/Cutting 
down and Tree are contained within Part J of this DCP.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-40 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
C5.2  Assessment of trees 

Emergency Procedures

Objectives

Controls

  a)   Where a tree(s) pose a potential hazard 
to property, the applicant should identify 
this on the application form. Council 
may expedite the assessment. No 
responsibility shall be taken by Council 
should a tree fail and cause damage or 
injury prior to inspection and the issue 
of the Tree Preservation Permit;

b)   Emergency Permits may be issued 

to applicants if deemed necessary by 
Council’s Tree Management Officer(s); 
and

c)   In respect of potential hazard situations, 
tree problems do not usually occur in 
the short term, (except in the event of 
physical/mechanical damage i.e. storm 
activity etc)

O1.  Providing a guide to the regulatory framework for 

C3. 

the preservation of trees;

O2.  Helping in establishing a coordinated approach to 
the assessment and management of trees.

Controls

C1. 

  Council may issue a permit or development 
consent for the removal of tree(s) if the 
following criteria are met:

a)   The tree is a poor specimen and is in 
decline and or inappropriate for the 
location;

b)   The tree has caused significant 

structural damage and supporting 
documentation is provided i.e. structural 
engineer’s report; and

c)   It can be demonstrated that there is an 
on-going problem with the tree and no 
other course of action will rectify the 
problem.

C2. 

  Council may issue a permit or development 
consent for the pruning of tree(s) if the 
following criteria are met:

a)   The tree(s) have structural defects and 
or disease and remedial pruning (to AS 
4373-1996), will improve the health of 
the tree; and

b)   The tree(s) require crown thinning (no 

reduction in height permitted) to reduce 
weight within the tree if the tree is 
overhanging property or for other areas 
deemed appropriate i.e. access issues 
etc. A percentage no greater than 15% 
is generally issued.

In some circumstances it may be necessary 
for you to supply, at your cost, an 
independent arborist’s, structural, plumber’s 
and or pest report. A comprehensive 
report must meet the criteria as outlined 
in Council’s Guidelines for the Preparation 
of Reports available from Council. The 
Tree Management Officer will determine 
if such reports are necessary and such 
circumstances may include those where 
there is the possibility that the tree has 
been deliberately tampered with or extra 
supporting information is needed.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-41 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY C5.3  Canada Bay tree species

O1.  To preserve and enhance native wildlife 

populations and habitat through appropriate 
planting of indigenous vegetation.

Controls

C1. 

  Trees selected for inclusion in landscaping 

should comprise native vegetation 
indigenous to Canada Bay and should be 
chosen from Table C-H. 

Table C-H   Native trees

Native Trees

Common Name

Size, Foliage, Fruit, 
Indigenous

Private 
Gardens

Small 
Gardens

Parks Streets/ 
Carparks

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Acacia falcata

Sickle Wattle

4m, evergreen, indg.

Acacia fimbriata

Fringed Wattle

7m, evergreen

Acacia floribunda

Sally Wattle

7m, evergreen, indg.

Acacia longifolia

Sydney Golden Wattle

5m, evergreen, indg.

Acacia melanoxylon

Blackwood

7-15m, evergreen

Acacia prominens

Gosford Wattle

8m, evergreen, indg.

Acacia parramattensis

Sydney Wattle Green

9m, evergreen, indg.

Acmena smithii

Lilly Pilly

6-10m, evergreen, 
indigenous

Acmena smithii 
vaminor

Dwarf Lilly Pilly

7m, evergreen, indg.

Allocasuarina littoralis

Black She-oak

10m, evergreen, slender 
shape, indg.

15m, evergreen, indg.

Angophora costata

Archontophoenix 
cunninghamiana

Angophora, Sydney 
Red Gum

Bangalow Palm

5-8m, palm

Backhousia mytifolia

Grey Myrtle

5-8m, evergreen

Banksia integrifolia

Coastal Banksia

5-8m, evergreen, indg.

Banksia serrata

Old Man Banksia

5m, evergreen

Brachychiton 
acerifolium

Illawarra Flame Tree

10m, deciduous, Indigenous Yes

Callicoma serratifolia

Black Wattle

8m, evergreen, indg.

Callistemon viminalis

Weeping Bottlebrush

5m, evergreen

Callistemon salignus

Willow Bottlebrush

5-7m, evergreen, indg.

Callitris rhomboidea

Port Jackson Pine

8m, evergreen, indg.

Cassine australis

Red Olive Berry

5-7m, evergreen

Casuarina 
cunninghamiana

River She-oak

10m, evergreen

Elaeocarpus reticulatus Blueberry Ash

10m, evergreen indg.

Ehreta acuminata

Koda

7-10m, rainforest tree

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-42 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY Native Trees

Common Name

Size, Foliage, Fruit, 
Indigenous

Private 
Gardens

Small 
Gardens

Parks Streets/ 
Carparks

Eucalyptus botryoides Mahogony

20m, evergreen

E. ficifolia

Red Flowering Gum

8m, evergreen

E. haemastoma

Scribbly Gum

12m, evergreen,indg.

E. leucoxylon roseri

Yellow Gum

10-12m, evergreen

E. maculata

E. sideroxylon

Spotted Gum

Ironbark

20m, evergreen

15m, evergreen

Ficus macrophylla

Moreton Bay Fig

35m, evergreen

Ficus rubignosa

Port Jackson Fig

20m, evergreen

Flindersia australis

Austr. Teak

20m, evergreen

Howea forsterana

Lord Howe Island Palm 5m, palm

Hymenosporum flavum Native Frangipani

8m; evergreen, flowers

Leptospermum 
laevigatum

Coastal Tea Tree

7m, evergreen

Livistona australis

Cabbage Palm

7m, palm

Lophostemon confertus Brush-Box

Macadamia integrifolia Macadamia

10m, evergreen

7m, evergreen

Melia azedarach

White Cedar

7-10m, deciduous

Melaleuca armillaris

Honey Myrtle

M. linariifolia

M. nodosa

Snow in Summer, Ball 
Honey Myrtle

4m, evergreen

4m, evergreen

3m, evergreen

M. quinquinervia

Swamp Paperbark

10m, evergreen

M. squarrosa

Scented Paperbark

10m, evergreen

M. styphelioides

Prickly Paperbark

12m, evergreen

Omalanthus 
populifolius

Bleeding Heart

5m, evergreen

Pittosporum undulatum Sweet Pittosporum

8m, evergreen

Polyscias elegans

Celery Wood

8-10m, rainforest tree

Syzygium leumanhii

Riberry

8m, evergreen, rainforest 
tree

Tristaniopsis laurina

Water Gum

6-7m, evergreen

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes 

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-43 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY Table C-I   Exotic trees

Exotic Trees

Common Name

Size, Foliage, Fruit, 
Indigenous

Private 
Gardens

Small 
Gardens

Parks

Streets/ 
Carparks

Acer palmatum

Agonis flexuosa

Japanese Maple

5m, deciduous

Willow Myrtle

5-7m, evergreen

Bauhinia blakeana

Orchid Tree

7m, evergreen

Caesalpinia ferrea

Leopard Tree

10m, open crown

Cercis siliquastrum

Judas Tree

Citrus limon  
Citrus X tangelo  
Citrus aurantiurn

Lemon Tree        
Tangelo Tree 
Orange Tree

15m, deciduous

3-5m, evergreen

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Ginkgo biloba

Maidenhair Tree

10-15m, deciduous

Yes

Gleditsia triancanthos 
sunburst

Honey Locust

15-25m, deciduous

Jacaranda mimosifolia

Jacaranda

7-10m, deciduous in 
spring, purple flowers

Lagerstroemia indica

Crepe Myrtle

7m, deciduous

Liquidambar styraciflua

Liquidambar

15-20m, deciduous

Litchi chinensis

Magnolia denudata

Magnolia grandiflora

Lychee

Magnolia

Magnolia

Malus floribunda

Crab Apple

Morus rubra

Olea europaea

Mulberry

Olive

7m, evergreen, fruit

10m, deciduous

15m, wide crown

5m, deciduous, fruit

5m, deciduous, fruit

5m, evergreen, fruit

Paulownia Tomentosa

Butterfly Tree

10m, deciduous

Pistacia chinensis

Chinese Pistachio

15m, deciduous

Platanus orientalis

Plane Tree

35m, deciduous

Platanus x hybrida

London Plane

15-25m, deciduous, 
hardy

Plumeria rubra

Frangipani

3-5m, deciduous

Robinia pseudoacacia

Black Locust

12m, deciduous, white 
fragrant flowers

Sapium sebiferum

Chinese Tallow Tree

7m, deciduous

Schinus molle

Ulmus parvifolia

Peppercorn Tree

12m, evergreen

Chinese Elm

10m, deciduous

Washingtonia filifera

Cotton Palm

10m, palm

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes 

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-44 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY C6   Engineering Requirements for Development

C6.1  Engineering works

Council has adopted a separate Civil Infrastructure 
Works Policy and Engineering Technical Specification 
which aims to provide engineering requirements for the 
following:

•  Road and Footpath Works

•  Vehicular Access

•  Stormwater Management

Council requires that all future public infrastructure, 
development and building works within the Canada Bay 
Local Government Area comply with the Engineering 
Technical Specification to ensure that developments 
and construction of public domain areas are undertaken 
to aceptable standards.

A full copy of the Engineering Technical Specifications 
is provided as Attachment 2.

C6.2  Objectives 

Road and Footpath Works 

Objectives

O1.  To povide adequate engineering standards for 
public domain areas, public road reserves and 
private access roads.

O2.  To ensure that there is a benefit to the public 

resulting from development and the result is that 
the public is catered for by uniform infrastructure. 
Such infrastructure includes the road carriageway, 
footway, footpath, pavement, kerb and gutter, 
street trees, utility services, ancillaries and the 
like.

Vehicular Access 

Objectives

O3.  To ensure uniformity in the design and 

construction of vehicular crossings in the City of 
Canada Bay Local Government Area.

O4.  To ensure that safe and convenient vehicular 
access can be provided to and from parking 
spaces for all properties. 

Stormwater Management 

Objectives

O5.  To provide uniform guidelines and apply 

control systems to achieve consistency, in the 
assessment and conditioning of development 
applications, in relation to stormwater runoff from 
all development types.

O6.  To minimise any adverse impact on properties 

caused by stormwater runoff from all development 
types.

O7.  To ensure that the water quality of receiving 

waterways is not adversely affected by the 
discharge of pollutants such as nutrients and 
pathogens, from stormwater runoff as a result of 
development.

O8.  To ensure that uniform stormwater controls 

are applied throughout the whole of the City of 
Canada Bay Council Local Government Area.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-45 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY C7   Flooding Control 

C7.1  Introduction

Flooding can be a significant issue that affects people 
and development in some areas of the City of Canada 
Bay. The hazard can vary through a wide range over 
short distances and should be assessed on a location 
by location basis.

This Section establishes Council’s approach to 
flood related development control for the whole 
LGA. Council’s approach to flooding is based on the 
requirements of the New South Wales Government’s 
Flood Prone Land Policy and Floodplain Development 
Manual as amended (FDM 2005). 

Different controls are applicable depending on the land 
use, level of potential flood inundation and flood hazard 
category.

C7.2  Relationship to other 

documents

In areas where Council has adopted a Flood Study 
or Floodplain Risk Management Study or Floodplain 
Risk Management Plan that sets a flood planning 
area and freeboards, these will take precedence 
over the following DCP controls where there is any 
inconsistency. 

C7.3  Land to which this Flood 

Control clause applies

This section applies to:

•  Land which is shown as 'Flood Planning Area' in 
a Flood Planning Map in the Canada Bay Local 
Environmental Plan.

•  Land which is recommended to be shown as a 
Flood Planning Area in the Canada Bay Local 
Environmental plan by a publicly exhibited and/or 
adopted Flood Study prepared in accordance with the 
FDM (2005).

Where Council is of the understanding that land subject 
of an application is or may potentially be affected by 
flooding, Council may require the applicant to prepare a 
flood study.

Definitions:

Words and phrases in this section have the meanings 
assigned in the LEP and FDM(2005).

A 'High Flood Risk' Precinct is an area of land that 
under 1%AEP conditions is either subject to a high 
hydraulic hazard or presents significant evacuation 
difficulties.

A 'Medium Flood Risk' Precinct is an area of land 
that under 1%AEP conditions is not subject to a high 
hydraulic hazard and presents less than significant 
evacuation difficulties.

A 'Low Flood Risk' Precinct is the area above the 100 
year flood and includes all area up to and including the 
'Probable Maximum Flood (PMF)'.

Freeboard represents a nominated additional height 
above a flood level to provide a safety factor against 
inundation. It is used to set minimum floor levels.

Abbreviations:

AEP: Annual Exceedance Probability

FDM 2005: Floodplain Development Manual

FRMP: Flood Risk Management Plan

FRMS: Flood Risk Management Study

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-46 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY Objectives

O1.  To ensure the proponents of development and the 

community in general are aware of the potential 
flood hazard over the whole range of AEP and of 
the consequent risk and liability associated with 
the development and use of flood liable land.

O2.  To manage flood liable land in manner that is 

economically and environmentally sustainable and 
socially responsible.

O3.  To establish whether or not a proposed 

development or activity is appropriate to be 
carried out having regard to the economic, 
property, environmental and human impacts of 
flooding.

O4.  To protect community by ensuring that 

developments with high sensitivity to flood risk 
(eg. critical public utilities) are sited and designed 
to provide reliable access, continued operability 
during emergencies, quick recovery and to 
generally minimise risk from flooding.

O5.  To allow development with a lower sensitivity 

to the flood hazard to be located within the 
floodplain, subject to appropriate design and 
siting controls and provided that the potential 
consequences that could still arise from flooding 
remain acceptable.

O6.  To prevent intensification of inappropriate 

development.

O7.  To control the use of 'High Hazard' areas and 

Floodways, and wherever appropriate and 
feasible, allow for their conversion to natural 
waterway corridors.

O8.  To ensure that proposed development does not 
expose existing development to increased risks 
associated with flooding.

O9.  To ensure building design and location address 

flood hazard.

O10. To ensure that development does not result in 

unreasonable flood impacts upon the amenity or 
ecology of an area.

O11.  To incorporate the principles of Ecologically 

Sustainable Development (ESD).

O12. To minimise the risk to life and property arising 

from flooding.

O13. To ensure the provision of appropriate access 
to and egress from areas affected by flooding 
including for extreme events.

O14. To provide controls to ensure that development is 

carried out in accordance with this Policy.

O15. To implement the principles of floodplain 
risk management as defined by the NSW 
Government’s Flood Prone Land Policy and the 
FDM 2005.

Design Principles

D1.  Development should not result in any increased 

risk to human life.

D2.  The additional economic and social costs which 

may arise from damage to property from flooding 
should not be greater than that which can 
reasonably be managed by the property owner, 
property occupants and general community.

D3.  Development should only be permitted where 
effective warning time is available for the 
evacuation of an area potentially affected by 
floods to an area free of risk from flooding.

D4.  Development should only be permitted where 

reliable egress is available for the evacuation of 
an area potentially affected by floods to an area 
free of risk from flooding.

D5.  Evacuation should be consistent with any 

relevant flood evacuation strategy or flood risk 
management plan where in existence.

D6.  Development should not adversely increase the 
potential flood affectation on other development 
or properties, either individually or in combination 
with similar developments(s) that are likely to 
occur within the same catchment.

D7.  Developments must make allowances for 

motor vehicles to be relocated to an area with 
substantially less risk from flooding within an 
effective warning time.

D8.  Developments must provide an evacuation plan 

detailing procedures that would be in place for an 
emergency (such as warning systems, signage or 
evacuation drills).

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-47 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY D9.  Flood mitigation measures associated with new 

developments should not result in significant 
impacts upon the amenity of an area by way 
of unacceptable overshadowing of adjoining 
properties, privacy impacts (eg. by unsympathetic 
house raising), alienation of otherwise usable 
open space or by being incompatible with the 
streetscape or character of the locality (including 
heritage). 

D10.  Raised structures shall be designed to cater 
for the forces of floodwaters. An Engineer’s 
Certificate will be required for the structural 
design.

D11.  Development is to be compatible with any relevant 

Floodplain Risk Management Study, Floodplain 
Risk Management Plan, Flood Studies, or 
Sub-Catchment Management Plan.

D12.  Development must not divert flood waters, nor 
interfere with floodwater storage or the natural 
function of waterways.

D13.  Filling of land up to the Probable Maximum 

Flood (PMF) must not adversely impact upon 
flood behaviour. This must be demonstrated by 
appropriate modelling.

C7.4  Development Controls

All proposals are to have regard to the planning 
matrix at Table C-K. The procedure to determine 
which design standards apply to proposed 
development involves:

Step 1: identify the land use category of the 
development from Table C-K; and

Step 2: determine which flood risk category applies 
to the land (in some areas Council may have 
undertaken a formal flood study and published 
flood risk mapping or made the data available on 
application. Where Council is of the understanding 
that land subject of an application is or may 
potentially be affected by flooding, Council may 
require the applicant to prepare a flood study.); and

Step 3: apply the objectives and design principles as 
outlined in this section and then the design standards 
in the planning matrix at Table C-K as applicable to 
the floodplain and land use category, the numbers in 
Table C-K identify the controls which are applicable 
as detailed in C7.5 Details of Flood Controls (Flood 
Planning Matrix).

D14.  Development must consider the impact of flooding 
resulting from local overland flooding whether it is 
a result of Local Drainage or Major Drainage.

NOTE: An evacuation plan does not negate 
requirements for compliance with planning and 
building regulations.

D15.  Where hydraulic flood modelling is required, 

flow hazard categories should be identified 
and adequately addressed in the design of the 
development.

D16.  Council strongly discourages basement car 

parks on properties within the floodplain. Where 
site conditions require a basement car park on 
a property within the floodplain, development 
applications must provide a detailed hydraulic 
flood study and design demonstrating that the 
proposed basement car park has been protected 
from all flooding up to and including the PMF 
event. An adequate emergency response 
and evacuation plan must also be provided 
where basement car parks are proposed in the 
floodplain.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-48 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY Table C-J   Land Use and Development Category Definitions

Sensitive Uses and Facilities

Critical Uses and Utilities 

Community facilities or public administration buildings which may provide an 
important contribution to the notification and evacuation of the community during 
flood events(eg community buildings that may serve as evacuation centres); 
Facilities which involve concentrations of more vulnerable people; Child care 
centres; Hospitals; Residential care facilities; Seniors housing; Educational 
establishments. (See also “Concessional Development”)

Public utilities, community facilities or public administration buildings which provide 
direct emergency response. (Eg Police Stations, Ambulance Stations, SES 
Headquarters, Council Works Depots, Telecommunication facilities.) Hazardous 
industries; Hazardous storage establishments; Offensive industries; Offensive 
storage establishments; Liquid fuel depots; Undertakings which may cause 
pollution during flooding, are essential to evacuation during periods of flood or if 
affected during flood events would unreasonably affect the ability of the community 
to return to normal activities after flood events; Waste management facilities. (See 
also “Concessional Development”)

Subdivisions

Filling

Subdivision of land which involves the creation of additional allotments.

The net importation of fill material onto a site, except where: 

Residential

Commercial or Industrial

1.  final surface levels are raised by no more than 100mm over no more than 50% 

of the site; or

2.  filling is no more than 800mm thick beneath a concrete building slab only.

Earthworks involving both cut and fill shall not be considered to be filling provided 
that:

1. 

there is no net importation of fill material onto the site; and

2. 

there is no net loss of flood storage.

Residential accommodation unless more specifically included in the Sensitive Uses 
and Facilities category above or Commercial Industrial category below. (See also 
“Concessional Development”)

Bulky goods premises; Business Premises; Car parks; Depots; Entertainment 
facilities; Food and drink premises; Freight transport facilities; Funeral chapels; 
Funeral homes; Function centres; Hardware and building supplies; Heavy 
industries; Hotel accommodation; Industries; Landscape and garden supplies; 
Light industries; Materials recycling or recovery centres; Medical centres; Mixed 
use development; Office premises; Passenger transport facilities; Places of public 
worship; Public administration buildings (other than an essential community facility); 
Pubs; Recreation facilities (indoor); Registered clubs; Restricted premises; Retail 
Premises; Service stations; Sex services premises; Shop top housing; Tourist and 
visitor accommodation; Vehicle body repair workshops; Vehicle repair stations; 
Vehicle showrooms; Veterinary hospitals; Warehouse or distribution centres. (See 
also “Concessional Development”)

Tourism Related Development

Advertising structures; Kiosks; Markets; Information and education facilities; 
Signage.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-49 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
Open Space or Non-urban Uses Recreation facilities (outdoor); Recreation areas and minor ancillary structures 

Concessional Development

(e.g. Amenities blocks or kiosks) Boat launching ramps; Boat repair facilities; Boat 
sheds; Jetty; Animal boarding and training establishments; Environmental facilities; 
Helipad.

Concessional development is any development or redevelopment that would 
normally not be permitted under this Plan, but may be permitted as a concession 
provided it:-

1. is kept clear of any floodway; and

2. involves an acceptably small (see below for limits) addition or alteration to an 

existing development that will not cause a significant increase in potential flood 
losses or risks or have an adverse impact on adjoining properties; or

3. redevelopment that achieves a substantial reduction of the extent of flood 

affectation relative to the existing situation provided that such redevelopments 
incorporate, to the fullest extent practical, design features and measures to 
reduce the existing potential for flood losses and personal risks and avoid any 
adverse impacts on adjoining properties – especially obstruction or diversion of 
floodwaters and loss of flood storage.

Limits for residential development. The maximum size of a 
concessional development is:

1. a once-only addition or alteration to an existing dwelling of no more than 10% 

or 30m2 (whichever is the lesser) of the habitable floor area which existed at the 
date of commencement of this Policy or Plan; or

2. the construction of an outbuilding with a maximum floor area of 20m2.

Limits for other (non-residential) development

In the case of other development categories, the maximum size of a concessional 
development is a once-only addition to existing premises of no more than 10% of 
the floor area which existed at the date of commencement of this Policy or Plan.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-50 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY Table C-K   Flood Planning Matrix

Concessional Development

Open Space & Non-Urban

Tourist Related Development

Commercial & Industrial

Residential*

Filling

Subdivision

Critical Uses & Facilities

Sensitive Uses & Facilities

Concessional Development

Open Space & Non-Urban

Tourist Related Development

Commercial & Industrial

Residential*

Filling

Subdivision

k
s
i
R
d
o
o
F

l

h
g
H

i

l

k
s
i
R
d
o
o
F
m
u
d
e
M

i

Critical Uses & Facilities

Sensitive Uses & Facilities

Concessional Development

Open Space & Non-Urban

Tourist Related Development

Commercial & Industrial

Residential*

Filling

Subdivision

k
s
i
R
d
o
o
F
w
o
L

l

5

,
4

5

,
1

5

,
2

5

,

2

5

,

2

5

,

2

5

,

2

5

,

2

5

,

2

5

,

2

1

1

1

5

,
1

,
3

6

4

,
2

4

,
3

1

1

1

4

7

,
2

,
6

4
.
1

,
2

4

,
3

1

1

1

1

1

2

1

1

1

1

1

1

5

,
1

4

,

2

7
,

6

6

,
3

4

,

1

3

6

,

1

,

5

3

6

,

1

,

5

7 3

,

7 3

,

6

,

4

6

,

4

,
2

4

,
3

,

2

4

,

3

,

2

4

,

3

,

2

4

,

3

1

1

1

3

6

,

1

,

5

8

,

7

,

3

6

,

4

,

2

4

,

3

1

,

5

4

,

3

1

4

7

,

2

,

6

3

6

,

1

,

5

3

6

,

1

,

5

2

2

2 1

,

,

5

3

8

,

6

4

4

4

,

3

1

2

5

1

Critical Uses & Facilities

3

2

2

2 1

,

,
5

3

8

,
6

4

,
2

6

3

,
2

4

Sensitive Uses & Facilities

3

2

2

2 1

,

,
5

3

8

,
6

4

,
2

3

,
2

i

h
c
h
w
s
o
r
t
n
o
c

l

e
h
t

y
f
i
t
n
e
d

i

i

n
o
i
t
a
r
e
d
s
n
o
C
g
n
n
n
a
P

l

i

w
o
e
b

l

s
r
e
b
m
u
n

e
h
t
(

n
o
i
t
c
e
s

n

i

i

d
e
n
a
t
n
o
c

s
a

l

,
e
b
a
c

i
l

p
p
a

e
r
a

)
5
.
7
C

s
s
e
c
c
A
y
a
w
e
v
i
r

D
&
g
n
k
r
a
P

i

r
a
C

i

n
g
s
e
D
&

t
n
e
m
e
g
a
n
a
M

n
o
i
t
a
u
c
a
v
E

t
n
e
n
o
p
m
o
C
g
n
d

i

l
i

u
B

s
s
e
n
d
n
u
o
S

l

a
r
u
t
c
u
r
t

S

n
o
i
t
c
e
ff
A
d
o
o
F

l

l

e
v
e
L

r
o
o
F

l

s
t
c
n
i
c
e
r
P
k
s
i
R
d
o
o
F

l

l

s
o
r
t
n
o
C

l

t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D
&
g
n
n
n
a
P

l

i

i

s
n
o
s
v
o
r
p

i

'
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D

l

l

i

a
n
o
s
s
e
c
n
o
C

'

o
t

o
s
a

l

r
e
f
e
r

t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
d
e
r

l

r
o
F

*

e
s
U

d
n
a
L

l

e
b
a
t
i
u
s
n
U

t

n
a
v
e
e
R

l

t

o
N

y
e
K
r
u
o
o
C

l

s
e
t
o
N

f
o

g
n
i
t
n
a
r
g

e
h
t

l

e
d
u
c
e
r
p

y
a
m
s
e
t
i
s

l

i

a
u
d
v
d
n

i

i

o
t

i

s
t
n
a
r
t
s
n
o
c

i

,
g
n
d
n
a
t
s
h
t
i

w
t
o
N

.
s
e
n
o
z

s
u
o
i
r
a
v

n

i

t
n
e
s
n
o
c

h
t
i

i

l

w
e
b
s
s
m
r
e
p

i

t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
d

l

s
e
fi
i
t
n
e
d

i

3
1
0
2

n
a
P

l

l

a
t
n
e
m
n
o
r
i
v
n
E

l

a
c
o
L

y
a
B
a
d
a
n
a
C

i

d
e
r
e
d
s
n
o
c

i

e
b

l
l
i

w
s
e
p
y
t

t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
d

l

i

n
a
t
r
e
c

e
r
e
h
w
e
n
m
r
e
t
e
d

i

o
t

l

y
e
k

i
l

e
r
a

s
k
s
i
r

d
o
o
fl

e
r
e
h
w
s
e
fi
i
t
n
e
d

i

x
i
r
t
a
m
e
v
o
b
a

e
h
T

.
e
t
i
s

a

f
o

t
r
a
p

r
o

l
l

a

n
o

t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
d

l

f
o

s
m
r
o
f

i

n
a
t
r
e
c

r
o
f

t
n
e
s
n
o
c

.
s
k
s
i
r

d
e
t
a
e
r

l

d
o
o
fl

o
t

e
u
d

l

"
e
b
a
t
i
u
s
n
u
"

.
y
r
o
g
e
t
a
c

e
s
u

d
n
a

l

l

e
b
a
c

i
l

p
p
a

e
h
t

f
o

s
n
o
i
t
a
r
e
d
s
n
o
c

i

i

g
n
n
n
a
p

l

s
s
e
n
d
n
u
o
S

l

a
r
u
t
c
u
r
t

S
d
n
a

s
t
c
e
ff
E
d
o
o
F

l

t
n
a
v
e
e
r

l

e
h
t

o
t

j

t
c
e
b
u
s

s

i

t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
d

l

d
e
s
o
p
o
r
p

a

f
o

t
r
a
p

a

s
m
r
o
f

t

a
h
t

i

g
n
c
n
e
f

y
n
A

.
e
s
u
a
c

i

s
h
t

s
s
e
r
d
d
a

o
t

i

n
g
s
e
d

n
e
p
o

f
o

e
b

o
t

d
e
e
n

y
a
m
s
e
c
n
e
F

.
s
n
o
i
t
a
c

i
l

p
p
a

l

i

a
u
d
v
d
n

i

i

f
o

s
e
c
n
a
t
s
m
u
c
r
i
c

e
h
t

n

i

d
e

i
l

p
p
a

l

s
o
r
t
n
o
c

e
h
t

i

e
n
m
r
e
t
e
d

o
t

d
e
s
u
P
R
F

e
h
t

e
g
n
a
h
c

y
a
m

,
l
i

c
n
u
o
C
o
t

l

e
b
a
t
p
e
c
c
a

e
r
e
h
w

,
e
t
i
s

f
o

g
n

i
l
l
i

F

i
i

i
i
i

l

a
t
n
e
m
n
o
r
i
v
n
E

l

a
c
o
L

y
a
B
a
d
a
n
a
C
e
h
t

n

i

i

s
n
o
s
v
o
r
p

i

e
n

i
l

g
n
d

i

l
i

u
b

e
r
o
h
s
e
r
o
F

d
n
a

a
e
r
A
e
r
o
h
s
e
r
o
F

n
O

l

t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D
d
e
t
i

m
L

i

4
.
6

e
s
u
a
C
o
t

l

j

t
c
e
b
u
s

e
b

i

y
a
m
n
a
p
d
o
o
fl

l

e
h
t

i

n
h
t
i

w

t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D

l

v

i

.
3
1
0
2

n
a
P

l

.
x
i
r
t
a
m
e
v
o
b
a

e
h
t

y
b

d
e
r
u

t

p
a
c

t

o
n

s

i

l

e
v
e

l

F
M
P
e
h

t

e
v
o
b
a

d
n
a

l

e
h
t

t
a
h
t

e
t
o
N

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-51 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C7.5  Details of the Flood Controls 

Structural Soundness

(Flood Planning Matrix see Table C-K)

Controls

Floor Level

Controls

C1. 

Floor levels to be equal to or greater than 
the 20 year Average Recurrence Interval 
(ARI) flood level plus freeboard.

C2. 

  Habitable floor levels to be equal to or 

greater than the 100 year ARI flood level 
plus freeboard.

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

All floor levels to be equal to or greater than 
the Probable Maximum Flood (PMF) level.

Floor levels to be equal to or greater 
than the 100 year ARI flood level plus 
freeboard. Where this is not practical due 
to compatibility with the height of adjacent 
buildings, or compatibility with the floor 
level of existing buildings, or the need for 
access for persons with disabilities, a lower 
floor level may be considered. In these 
circumstances, the floor level is to be as 
high as practical, and, when undertaking 
alternations or additions, no lower than the 
existing floor level.

A restriction is to be placed on the title 
of the land, pursuant to S.88B of the 
Conveyancing Act, where the lowest 
habitable floor area is elevated more 
than 1.5m above finished ground level, 
confirming that the subfloor space is not to 
be enclosed.

Because of the particular catchment 
characteristics of the Concord West 
Precinct, additional requirement is for 
habitable floor levels to be at a minimum 
of RL 3.0m AHD. Refer to sections 9.3.3, 
9.3.6, and 10.2.3 of the CWFS.

Building Components and Method

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

All structures to have flood compatible 
building components below the 100 year 
ARI flood level plus freeboard.

All structures to have flood compatible 
building components below the PMF.

C1. 

C2. 

An Engineer’s report is required to certify 
that the structure can withstand the forces 
of floodwater, debris and buoyancy up to 
and including a 100 year ARI flood level 
plus freeboard.

An Engineer’s report is required to certify 
that the structure can withstand the forces 
of floodwater, debris and buoyancy up to 
and including a PMF level.

Flood Affectation

Controls

C1. 

An Engineer’s report is required to 
demonstrate how and certify that the 
development will not increase flood 
affectation elsewhere, having regard to: 

a)   loss of flood storage; 

b)   changes in flood levels, flows and 

velocities caused by alterations to flood 
flows; and 

c)   the cumulate impact of multiple potential 

developments in the vicinity.

C2. 

The impact of the development on flooding 
elsewhere to be considered having regard 
to the three factors listed in C1 above.

Car Parking and Driveway Access

Controls

C1. 

The minimum surface level of open 
parking spaces or carports shall be as 
high as practical, but no lower than 0.1m 
below the 100 year ARI flood level. In the 
case of garages, the minimum surface 
level shall be as high as practical, but no 
lower than the 100 year ARI flood level.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-52 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

C7. 

C8. 

The minimum surface level of open 
parking spaces or carports shall be as 
high as practical, but no lower than 0.3m 
above the 20 year ARI flood level.

Garages capable of accommodating 
more than 3 motor vehicles on land 
zoned for urban purposes, or enclosed 
car parking, must be protected from 
inundation by floods equal to or greater 
than the 100 year ARI flood. Ramp levels 
to be no lower than 0.5m above the 100 
year ARI flood level.

The driveway providing access between 
the road and parking spaces shall be as 
high as practical and generally rising in 
the egress direction.

The level of the driveway providing 
access between the road and parking 
spaces shall be no lower than 0.2m 
below the 100 year ARI flood level.

Enclosed car parking and car parking 
areas accommodating more than 3 
vehicles, with a floor below the 100 year 
ARI flood level, shall have adequate 
warning systems, signage, exits and 
evacuation routes.

Restraints or vehicle barriers to be 
provided to prevent floating vehicles 
leaving a site during a 100 year ARI 
flood.

Enclosed underground car parks shall 
have all potential water entry points 
protected from the PMF. The intent of this 
requirement is to mitigate the creation 
of life threatening circumstances and 
very high economic loss such as may 
occur with the complete inundation of 
an underground car park. Council may 
consider relaxation of this requirement 
if it can be shown by modelling that the 
catchment characteristics are such that 
the maximum depth of inundation is less 
than 300mm. Because of the particular 
catchment characteristics of the Concord 
West Precinct, an additional requirement 
within that precinct is for habitable floor 
levels to be at a minimum of RL 3.0m 
AHD. Refer to sections 9.3.3, 9.3.6, and 
10.2.3 of the CWFS.

Evacuation

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

Reliable access for pedestrians required 
during a 20 year ARI peak flood.

Reliable access for pedestrians and 
vehicles required to a publicly accessible 
location during the PMF peak flood.

Reliable access for pedestrians and 
vehicles is required from the site to an 
area of refuge above the PMF level, 
either on site (eg. second storey) or off 
site.

Applicant is to demonstrate the 
development is consistent with any 
relevant flood evacuation strategy or 
similar plan.

Applicant is to demonstrate that 
evacuation in accordance with the 
requirements of this DCP is available for 
the potential development resulting from 
the subdivision.

Adequate flood warning is available 
to allow safe and orderly evacuation 
without increased reliance upon SES or 
other authorised emergency services 
personnel.

Management and Design

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

Applicant is to demonstrate that potential 
development as a consequence of a 
subdivision proposal can be undertaken 
in accordance with this clause, and any 
applicable flood study, FRMS and FRMP.

Site Emergency Response Flood Plan 
required where the site is affected by 
the 100 year ARI flood level (except for 
single dwelling-houses).

Applicant is to demonstrate that area is 
available to store goods above the 100 
year flood level plus freeboard.

No storage of materials below the 100 
year ARI flood level.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-53 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C8   Contaminated land

Objectives

O1.  Minimise the risk to human and environmental 
health on land contaminated by past uses.

O2.  To ensure each development application includes 
information sufficient to allow Council to meet 
its obligation to determine whether development 
should be restricted due to the presence of 
contamination.

O3.  To facilitate appropriate site remediation to ensure 

the land is suitable for the intended use.

Note: These obligations are outlined in State 
Environmental Planning Policy No.55 at the time of 
adoption of this plan.

Controls

C1. 

  All development must take precautionary 

steps to prevent the release of substances 
that cause contamination of soil, surface 
water, air or groundwater.

C2. 

  Proposals for the development of 
contaminated land or potentially 
contaminated land will need to determine:

a)   The extent to which land is 

contaminated (including both soil and 
groundwater contamination) and;

b)   Whether the land is suitable in its 

contaminated state (or will be suitable 
after remediation) for the purpose for 
which the development is proposed to 
be carried out, and;

c)   Whether the land requires remediation 

to make the land suitable for the 
intended use prior to that development 
being carried out, and;

d)   If the land has been previously 
investigated or remediated, 
development cannot be carried out until 
Council has considered the nature, 
distribution and levels of residues 
remaining on the land and Council has 
determined that the land is suitable for 
the intended use.

C3. 

In accordance with Clause 9(f) of SEPP 55, 
Council specifies the following additional 
works as Category 1 remediation works:

a)   Remediation work within 40m of an 

open drainage channel, creek or water 
body.

b)   Remediation work involving treatment of 

groundwater.

c)   Remediation work involving on-site 

treatment of contaminated soil e.g., soil 
stabilisation, land-farming, soil washing 
or thermal desorption.

d)   Remediation work involving on-site 

capping or containment of contaminated 
soils.

e)   Remediation work on a site where off 
site migration of contaminants has 
occurred.

f)   Remediation work involving the removal 
of Petroleum and other Underground 
Storage Tanks.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-54 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
C9   Crime prevention through environmental design

Objectives

O1.  Provide a safe environment and minimise 

opportunities for criminal and anti-social 
behaviour.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

  Active spaces and windows of habitable 
rooms within buildings are to be located 
to maximise casual surveillance of streets, 
laneways, parking areas, public spaces and 
communal courtyard space.

In commercial, retail or public buildings, 
facilities such as toilets and parents 
rooms are to be conveniently located and 
designed to maximise casual surveillance 
to facility entries.

  Minimise blind-corners, recesses and other 
external areas that have the potential for 
concealment or entrapment.

  Building entries are to be clearly visible, 
unobstructed and easily identifiable from 
the street, other public areas and other 
development. Where practicable lift lobbies, 
stairwells, hallways and corridors should be 
visible from the public domain.

C5. 

  Ground floors of non-residential buildings, 

the non-residential component of mixed use 
developments, and the foyers of residential 
buildings, are to be designed to enable 
surveillance from the public domain to the 
inside of the building at night.

C6. 

  Pedestrian routes from car parking spaces 
to lift lobbies are to be as direct as possible 
with clear lines of sight along the route.

C7. 

  Where dwelling units have individual 

main entries directly from a public space, 
the entry is to include a clearly defined 
transitional space between public and 
private areas.

C8. 

  Building details such as fencing, drainpipes 
and landscaping are to be designed so 
that illegitimate access is not facilitated 
by the opportunity for foot or hand-holds, 
concealment and the like.

Canada Bay DCP - Part C             ########PageC-55 

Development Control Plan Part C     General ControlsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
D

PART D - HERITAGE


Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-56 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY D1   Heritage reports to accompany development applications

Decisions affecting a heritage items or place within 
a conservation area need to be based on a clear 
analysis of why a place is significant and how proposals 
affecting the place have been designed to minimise 
the impact on the significance of the place. Depending 
on the significance of the place, strategies or policies 
to ensure the retention of the significance of the place 
might need to be developed. For this reason, different 
types of reports may be required for development 
proposals affecting places in a conservation area and 
heritage items.

The following outlines the different types of reports and 
when they may be required.

Please confirm with Council's heritage advisor if 
heritage report is needed

D1.1  Statement of heritage impact

A statement of heritage impact analyses and 
justifies the impact or place in a conservation area, 
or development in the vicinity of a heritage item 
of conservation area. Ideally, the impact would be 
such that the significance of the heritage item is not 
compromised, but rather enhanced by, for example, 
its stabilisation or repair and, where appropriate, 
restoration, reconstruction, adaptive re-use or 
sympathetic new development. 

A statement of heritage impact is required to 
accompany a building or development application. 
It should be succinct. Pertinent documents, such as 
physical condition reports, can be attached. Evidence 
may be included as to why alternative solutions are not 
viable.

A statement of heritage impact is to include the 
following:

•  A brief history of the subject site

•  A brief description of the subject site including 

comprehensive photographs

•  A statement describing the heritage significance of 

the site

•  A description of the proposed works

•  The impact of the proposal on heritage significance

•  Any mitigation measures

•  Why more sympathetic solutions were not viable

•  Relevant heritage controls of this DCP

•  Relevant policies in a conservation management 

document

•  For conservation areas, reference could also be 
made to Design in Context Guidelines for Infill 
Development in the Historic Environment.

D1.2  Conservation policy

A conservation policy explains the principles to be 
followed to retain or reveal an item’s significance. The 
aim is to show how the heritage significance of the item 
can be enhanced and maintained. This relies on a full 
understanding of the item’s significance and a review 
of the constraints and opportunities arising out of that 
significance.

The policy should be a positive set of guidelines for 
enhancing a heritage asset and its significance — 
not a set of restrictive rules. Heritage items that are 
restrained by inappropriate policies are in danger of 
having no viable use and are therefore likely to be 
neglected, falling into disrepair. The policy should be 
closely-related and cross-referenced to the statement of 
significance and to the significance of various elements 
of the item. Some parts of a heritage item, for example, 
might be more adaptable to a new use; or it may be 
essential to retain and enhance some views to, and 
from, the heritage item.

A conservation policy should be concise, and 
acceptable to all the parties involved in managing the 
item’s future.

D1.3  Conservation management 

plan

A conservation management plan states the 
conservation policy and the statement of significance 
and looks in more detail at achieving the future viability 
of the item and retaining the maximum heritage 
significance in future development proposals. 

D1.4  Requirements for heritage 

reports

The following table outlines what type of Heritage 
Report is required for a development application. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-57 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY Table C-A   Requirements for heritage reports 

Heritage listing

Type of development

Type of heritage report required

Site within a Conservation 
Area

Demolition – partial or complete

Change of Use

Additions and Alterations

New Development

Subdivision

Change of external material (re–roofing, re–cladding, 
rendering, replacement of windows or joinery)

Statement of Heritage Impact

Statement of Heritage Impact

Statement of Heritage Impact

Statement of Heritage Impact

Statement of Heritage Impact

Statement of Heritage Impact

Installation of new services

Statement of Heritage Impact

Landscape work including new fences and 
driveways, tree removal

Change of colour scheme

New signage

Major Works

Heritage item of local 
significance

In some cases, such 
as where major work 
is proposed to a 
heritage item, or where 
there are compliance 
issues, a Conservation 
Management Plan maybe 
required.

Demolition – partial or complete

Change of Use

Additions and Alterations

New Development

Subdivision

Change of external material (re–roofing, re–cladding, 
rendering, replacement of windows or joinery)

Installation of new services

Landscape work including new fences and 
driveways, tree removal

New Signage

Change of colour scheme

No report required

No report required

No report required

Conservation Management 
Management Plan (or Conservation 
Management Strategy if agreed by 
Council)

Statement of Heritage Impact

Statement of Heritage Impact

Statement of Heritage Impact

Statement of Heritage Impact

Statement of Heritage Impact

Statement of Heritage Impact

Statement of Heritage Impact

Statement of Heritage Impact

Statement of Heritage Impact

No report required

Heritage item of state 
significance

Demolition – complete or major partial

Conservation Management Plan

Demolition – minor partial

Change of Use

Minor Additions and alterations

Major Additions and alterations

Subdivision

Conservation Policy

Conservation Management Plan

Conservation Policy

Conservation Management Plan

Conservation Management Plan

Change of colour scheme

Conservation Policy

New development adjacent to heritage item

Statement of Heritage Impact

New development on the site of a heritage item

Conservation Management Plan

Change to external material (re–roofing, re–cladding, 
replacement of windows or joinery)

Conservation Policy

Installation of new services

Fire Upgrade

Landscape work – minor

Landscape work including new fences and 
driveways, tree removal

Conservation Policy (a Conservation 
Management Plan might be required 
if the building is undergoing a major 
services upgrade)

Conservation Policy

Conservation Policy

Conservation Management Plan

New Signage

Conservation Policy

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-58 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY D2   Development of heritage items

Heritage items have been identified as places 
that should be retained and conserved for future 
generations. The heritage significance of these places 
must be understood and respected when designing 
future development. The following controls assist in 
designing alterations and additions to places of heritage 
significance.

D2.1  Setting

Setting is the area around a heritage item that 
contributes to its heritage significance and may include 
the visual catchment of a heritage item. Topography, 
trees, gardens, fencing, and pavement can all 
contribute to the setting of a heritage item. Where a 
heritage item is a landmark, it is particularly important 
that new development does not obscure its visual 
presence in the streetscape and/or townscape.

Objectives

O1.  To provide an appropriate visual setting for 

heritage items, including landscaping, fencing and 
carparking.

C2. 

O2.  To ensure that new development respects the 

contribution of a heritage item to the streetscape 
and/or townscape. 

D2.2  Scale

Scale is the size of a building and its relationship with 
its surrounding buildings or landscape. It is important 
that new development at places of heritage significance 
respects the scale of the existing buildings and/or 
landscape elements that contribute to the significance 
of the place.

Objective

O1.  To ensure that additions to a heritage item and 

new buildings on the site of a heritage item are of 
a scale consistent with the heritage item.

O2.  To ensure that the heritage item remains the 
visually dominant element on the site. 

Controls

C1. 

Alterations and additions to a heritage 
item should not be larger in scale than the 
heritage item and should preferably be 
single storey.

Development of a larger scale than the 
heritage item is allowable only if the new 
development will not detract from the 
aesthetic quality and important views of 
the heritage item.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

Original elements that contribute to 
the setting of a heritage item such as 
landscaping, fences, driveways, seawalls 
etc should not be removed.

Alterations and additions should be located  
at the rear so that they do not impact on 
the setting of the heritage item.

New structures at places of heritage 
significance such as swimming pools and 
outbuildings should be located at the rear 
so that they do not impact on the setting of 
the heritage item.

Cut and fill or other work that changes the 
landform around a heritage item should 
generally be limited to 1m.

C3. 

  Where a large addition or extensive 

alterations are proposed to a heritage 
item, conservation works are to be 
undertaken to the item. This will usually 
require the preparation of a detailed 
schedule of conservation works and detail 
drawings.

D2.3  Form and detailing

The form of a building is its overall shape and volume 
and the arrangement of its parts. The rooflines of 
buildings, and elements such as chimneys, parapet 
walls, verandahs etc are often important elements of 
the form of a heritage item. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-59 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives

D2.4  Materials and colours

O1.  To ensure that important elements of the form of 
a heritage item are not obscured or destroyed by 
alterations and additions.

O2.  To ensure that the form of a heritage item 

retains its importance in the streetscape and/or 
townscape.

O3.  To ensure authentic restorations or reconstruction, 
based on documentary (research) or physical 
evidence.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

Important elements of the form of 
a heritage item such as roof forms, 
chimneys, parapet walls, verandahs etc 
should not be demolished or obscured by 
alterations and additions

Verandahs on the front and sides of a 
heritage item should not be infilled.

Additions should be attached to the 
original part of the building as wings, 
linked pavilions or skillions at the back of 
the house. Additions should not be higher 
than the ridgeline of the existing building 
and the existing roof form over the main 
body of the building should be retained. 
Pavilions should be set slightly apart from 
the original house and connected with a 
lower built element.

New development, alterations and 
additions to heritage buildings must be 
consistent with the scale, shape and 
materials of the existing (or adjacent) 
significant building so as not to detract 
from the visual importance of existing 
historic buildings in the area or the area's 
visual consistency and amenity. Materials 
for additions should be the similar to the 
existing house, or lighter weight materials 
such as painted timber, iron or timber 
cladding.

Mock historical details should not be 
applied, as they will not be of any heritage 
value themselves and can confuse our 
understanding of what is ‘old’ and ‘new’.

“Pop top” additions (an additional 
form extruding above the roof) are not 
acceptable

The selection of materials and colours is very important 
to the aesthetic qualities of most built heritage items. 
Development that includes changing roof materials, 
re-skinnning of brickwork, rendering or painting of 
face brickwork and inappropriate textured finishes can 
degrade the character of a heritage item.

Additions and alterations on the site of a heritage item 
should take into consideration the original materials 
of the heritage item. While it is not always necessary 
to match the materials of the original building, new 
materials should be carefully selected to ensure they 
complement the original building.

Objectives

O1.  To ensure that original materials that contribute 
to the significance of heritage items are not 
obscured.

O2.  To ensure that colours of paintwork on heritage 
items are consistent with the significance of the 
heritage item.

O3.  To ensure that external materials and colours on 
alterations and additions to heritage items relate 
well to the materials and colours of the heritage 
item.

O4.  To ensure that heritage items are enhanced 

through replacement of irreparable or missing 
elements.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

Original materials of heritage items should 
not be replaced with different materials or 
materials of different colour.

Non-original materials of heritage items 
that are being replaced shall, if possible, 
be replaced with material that matches 
the original material as closely as 
possible.

Painting or rendering original face brick 
walls is not permitted, and re-skinning 
may exceptionally be considered where 
condition of fabric does not allow its 
further retention. Timber houses may 
be re-clad with timber weatherboards of 
a profile to match existing. Re-roofing 
should use materials matching original.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-60 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

C7. 

C8. 

The detail and texture of original rendered 
finishes should not be changed.

Materials for additions and alterations to 
heritage items should be harmonious with 
the original materials of the heritage item. 

Colour schemes for heritage items should 
have a hue and tonal relationship with 
traditional colour schemes for the period 
and style of the heritage item. 

The use of fluorescent paint and primary 
colours on heritage items is not permitted.

The use of modern finishes including 
stencilled concrete for driveways 
associated with heritage items is not 
permitted.

C9. 

  Where it is not possible to retain an 

original building or landscape component, 
the new component is to match the 
original.

C10.   

Missing original components of the 
heritage item should be replaced.

D2.5  Doors and windows

The spacing, proportions and detailing of doors and 
windows of heritage items usually contributes greatly 
to their aesthetic appeal. Altering windows and doors 
or adding new openings can dramatically affect the 
character of a building.

Objectives

O1.  To retain original windows and doors that 
contribute to the aesthetic quality and/or 
significance of a heritage item.

O2.  To reinstate lost details that contributed to the 
aesthetic qualities and/or significance of a 
heritage item.

O3.  To retain the proportions of walls and openings 
that contribute to the aesthetic quality of a 
heritage item.

O4.  To ensure that original or significant doors and 
windows are not obscured or altered by fittings 
and additions.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

C7. 

Original or significant windows and doors 
in important elevations of a heritage item 
should be conserved.

  Where original or significant windows and 
doors in important elevations of a heritage 
item have been removed and replacement 
of the new joinery is proposed, the 
original windows and/or doors should be 
reconstructed.

Additions to windows including security 
bars, grilles and shutters, should be 
located inside the window so as not to 
obscure windows or adversely affect the 
external appearance of buildings.

Additions to external doors, including 
security screens and grilles, should not 
obscure or distort the original form of 
doors or the character and significance of 
the building.

New window and door openings in 
important elevations of a heritage item 
must be:

a)   Carefully located to retain the original 
relationship of solids and voids; and

b)   Of proportions, materials and details 
similar to existing windows and door 
openings in the building.

New dormer and roof windows of a house 
should be located on rear roof slopes in 
preference to roof slopes visible from the 
street.

New dormer windows visible from the 
street may only be possible on houses 
of style and period which allow dormer 
windows. These dormers must::

a)   Located to complement the original 

design of the building; and

b)   Of proportions and details to 

complement the original character of 
the building.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-61 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C8. 

Extensive areas of glazing are not 
permitted unless this feature was a 
feature of the original design of the 
building visible from the public realm.

C9. 

New skylights are not permitted in roof 
slopes visible from the public realm.

D2.6  Carparking

Garages and carports can have the greatest detrimental 
impact on the aesthetic qualities of heritage items. 
Garages and carports in front of the building line 
obscure views of the buildings and break the rhythm 
and pattern of the streetscape. The proportions of 
garage doors do not relate to the smaller and more 
vertical proportions of windows and doors that are 
usually found on heritage items.

Objective

O1.  To ensure that, where possible, garages and 
carports are designed to minimise the visual 
impact on views of heritage items. 

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

Original or significant garages should be 
retained and conserved.

Garages and carports must be located as 
far behind the front building alignment as 
possible.

Garages must not be incorporated into 
the front façade of a heritage item.

  Where a new garage or carport is on 
the same side of a building as a front 
verandah, the garage or carport must be 
detached and located entirely behind the 
front wall by at least 1m.

Garages and carports must not be 
integrated with any auxiliary structure or 
secondary dwelling.

D2.7  Fencing

Fencing, particularly fencing facing the street, is of 
particular importance in establishing the setting of a 
heritage item. Fencing should complement the style and 
scale of the house. 

Objectives

O1.  To conserve gates and fences that are early or 

contemporary with heritage items.

O2.  To ensure that new fences and gates are in 

keeping with the character of the heritage item.

O3.  To ensure that the aesthetic quality of the heritage 
item is not diminished by inappropriate fencing.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

Fencing and gates that are original or 
early components of the heritage item 
should not be demolished.

New fencing and gates to a heritage item 
should be of a style and scale that is 
consistent with the style of the building.

Unless documentary or physical evidence 
is provided to establish a greater height, 
fencing forward of the building line 
constructed of solid material such as 
masonry, should not be greater than 
900mm in height above the adjacent 
public footpath level.

Unless documentary or physical evidence 
is provided to establish a greater height, 
fencing forward of the building line 
constructed of (non-solid) material such 
as timber pickets, metal palisades or 
wrought metal should not be greater than 
1.2m in height above the adjacent public 
footpath level.

C5. 

Original face brick or sandstone fencing to 
a heritage item should not be painted.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-62 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D2.8  Landscape elements 
including paving and 
driveways

Landscape elements are of great importance in 
contributing to the aesthetic quality of heritage items. 
The design of front gardens usually provides a setting 
for the building and reinforces the character of the 
heritage item.

Objectives

D2.9  Outbuildings

Early or significant outbuildings, such as sleep-
outs, shade-houses and pergolas, are important in 
contributing to the aesthetic quality, setting and story of 
use and development of a place.

New outbuildings such as garden sheds, outhouses, 
gazebos and pool pavilions can easily detract from the 
setting of heritage items. The location and setting of 
these must be carefully considered so that they have 
minimal impact on important views of heritage items.

O1.  To retain important landscape elements that 

contribute to the significance of heritage items.

Objective

O2.  To reinforce the qualities of the heritage item 

through appropriate landscaping.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

C7. 

Original driveways and footpath crossings 
that relate to a heritage item should not 
be relocated.

New driveways should be pairs of 
driveway strips of off-white or red oxide 
concrete, or brick on edge, with grass or 
ground cover between.

Double driveways and footpath crossings 
will generally not be permitted for houses 
listed as heritage items.

Original or early garden layouts that 
contribute to the significance of the 
heritage item should not be altered.

Established trees, shrubs, boundary 
planting and garden layouts that 
contribute to the significance of the 
heritage item should not be removed 
unless it can be established by an arborist 
that the health of the a tree or shrub 
is such that it must be removed. This 
includes trees in public domain which may 
be affected by development.

  When designing new gardens, surviving 
plants and garden elements which 
indicate the basic garden structure, can 
be worked into new appropriate designs 
that complement the style of the building.

The design and materials of the original 
driveway should be retained, and if 
missing, replaced.

O1.  To minimise visual intrusion on views of heritage 

items due to outbuildings.

O2.  To ensure original significant outbuildings are 

conserved.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

Original significant outbuildings including 
sleep-outs, shade-houses and pergolas 
should be retained and conserved.

Outbuildings and other auxiliary structures 
should be located in the rear yard of 
heritage items.

Outbuildings and other auxiliary structures 
should be single storey and designed so 
that they have no impact on important 
views of heritage items.

Outbuildings and other auxiliary structures 
should not be integrated with garage or 
carport.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-63 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D2.10  Modern technologies

C3. 

Modern technologies can include fixtures such as solar 
electricity collectors, television aerials and satellite 
dishes. These are usually large elements and are often 
intrusive elements in a roofscape. 

Objective

O1.  To ensure that modern technologies do not impact 

on important views of heritage items.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

Modern technologies such as solar 
electricity collectors, television aerials and 
satellite dishes are to be located on roof 
slopes facing the rear yard of heritage 
items.

Modern technologies should not be higher 
than the main ridge line of a building that 
is or is part of a heritage item and shall be 
located so that they are not visible from 
the public realm.

D2.11  Demolition 

Full demolition of heritage items is generally not 
permissible. Partial demolition of heritage items 
is possible subject to the merits of the proposal. 
Outbuildings that relate to heritage items can be 
demolished if the demolition does not impact on the 
significance of the heritage item.

Objective

O1.  To retain buildings that are of heritage significance 

or components of the site that contributes to the 
significance of a heritage item.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

Buildings that are listed as heritage items 
or contribute to the significance of a 
heritage item should not be demolished.

Partial demolition of a heritage item or its 
significant components, should only be 
allowed when it can be established that 
the partial demolition will have acceptable 
impact on the significance of the heritage 
item, or when condition of fabric is such 
that its failure is imminent . In the latter 
case, a reconstruction of demolished 
fabric may be required.

The Council may, under certain 
circumstances, give consent to demolish 
a heritage item or a contributory building 
in a conservation area. Such demolition, 
even if it is partial demolition, must be 
subject to a Development Application. 
Council will consider not just the outside 
appearance of the building and whether 
or not it looks run down. Council will 
weigh up the heritage significance of the 
property, its contribution to the history and 
identity of its street and neighbourhood, 
and its importance to the local area 
as a whole, so Council is unlikely to 
approve demolition unless the property is 
incapable of reasonable use or would be 
too costly to make usable.

D2.12  Subdivision

The grounds associated with a building are often of high 
importance in providing a setting to a heritage item. 
The grounds of a heritage item can also ensure that 
important views to or from a heritage item are available.  
Subdivision can result in the loss of the setting of a 
heritage item and should only be done if an adequate 
curtilage can be retained.

Objectives

O1.  To ensure that subdivision of a heritage item does 
not result in a loss of appropriate curtilage for the 
heritage item.

O2.  To ensure that subdivision of a heritage item does 

not potentially result in development that would 
obscure important views to or from the heritage 
item.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

Subdivision of an allotment that includes 
a heritage item should not be allowed 
unless an adequate curtilage of the 
heritage item is retained.

Subdivision of land that includes a 
heritage item should not be allowed 
unless it can be established that proposed 
or future development on the created 
allotments will not impact on important 
views to or from the heritage item.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-64 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
D2.13  Signs 

Many commercial buildings built in the late nineteenth 
and early twentieth century incorporate areas on the 
main façade designed for locating a sign to identify the 
business operating within. This allows for appropriate 
signage while the unity of the streetscape is retained.

Residential heritage items can be obscured by 
inappropriate signage. For most late nineteenth century 
and early twentieth century buildings, house names are 
often incorporated into the building or placed on a small 
sign fixed to a wall near the front door.

Objectives

O1.  To allow for appropriate signage on heritage items

O2.  To ensure the original details of heritage items are 

not obscured by inappropriate signage.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

All commercial signs on a heritage item or 
a building in heritage conservation area 
are to be restrained in visual prominence, 
of design compatible with style of the 
building, of high standard of materials, 
construction and graphics, and carefully 
placed in an appropriate location avoiding 
damage to the significant fabric.

Any sign proposed for a heritage item is to 
be consistent with the recommendations 
of any approved Signs Strategy forming 
part of a development consent or the 
policies and recommendations of any 
Conservation Management Plan applying 
to the heritage item.

Signage should include clear business 
identification by name and type, and 
should not include contact details, 
products offered or promotional 
messages. Graphics may be assessed for 
potential impact on heritage values.

New signs should be located in areas 
or elements of buildings that have 
traditionally been used for signage. Signs 
between the awning level and the parapet 
of a heritage item or a building in heritage 
conservation area are not permissible.

C5. 

C6. 

C7. 

C8. 

C9. 

C10.   

Shops in heritage listed buildings or in 
conservation areas are limited two signs 
per frontage, and other commercial 
tenants one sign per frontage from these 
types:
a)   Awning fascia sign,

b)   Under-awning sign, and

c)   Above-entry (hamper) sign.

In addition to the above, commercial 
tenants including shops are permitted 
traditional gilded lettering to glass.  Areas 
under lettering should be limited to 5% of 
the overall glass area.

In addition to the above, commercial 
tenants including shops are permitted 
intrinsic sign types, such as written in 
the pavement, in tile work, etc.  Any new 
intrinsic signs are to be designed and 
installed sympathetically with regard to 
existing intrinsic signs. In cases this may 
result in the potential locations for new 
signs being restricted or unavailable. 
Significant intrinsic signs in lead lighting 
or windows, painted on walls or as raised 
lettering in render must be conserved in 
situ. Any other significant existing signs 
need to be retained.

Internally illuminated signs are not 
permitted on a heritage item or a building 
in heritage conservation area unless 
they are a reconstruction of an original 
significant sign.

Externally illuminated signs are permitted 
only where cabling and conduit supplying 
power to the sign is completely concealed 
and does not involve intervention in or 
damage to significant fabric.

The installation of any sign on a heritage 
item is to be carried out in a reversible 
manner without damage to the significant 
fabric. In the case of a sign affixed to 
any stone or brick wall of a heritage item 
the sign is to be fixed in such a way that 
stone is not damaged and any fixings are 
put only onto mortar joints.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-65 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C11.   

The consent authority shall have regard 
to the name of a heritage item and 
whether or not the name is significant 
before allowing its building name sign to 
be changed. On some buildings this may 
mean that the building name may not be 
changed.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

D2.14  Adaptive reuse

Adaptive reuse of buildings is a process that changes a 
place that is no longer suitable for its original purpose, 
to a place that can be used for a new purpose. It is 
desirable both for environmental sustainability and 
heritage conservation. 

Reusing historic buildings has long term benefits for 
the community. Adaptive reuse allows buildings that 
are valued by the community to be retained for future 
generations. Sometimes it is the only way a place can 
be conserved for the future.

In many cases, adaptive reuse will involve few if any 
changes to a building. Where changes are needed to 
a building of heritage significance, it is important to 
first understand why the place is significant. Changes 
should then ensure that significant aspects of the place 
are conserved and that new development respects the 
significance of the place.

All buildings have “embodied energy”: the energy 
consumed by all the processes involved in producing 
materials, delivering them to site and constructing the 
building. New buildings have high energy costs. In 
2001, new buildings accounted for about 40% of annual 
energy and raw materials consumption. According to 
the Australian Greenhouse Office, the reuse of building 
materials can save approximately 95% of embodied 
energy. Adaptive reuse of buildings is also an important 
part of sustainable development.

General

Objectives

O1.  To encourage adaptive reuse of buildings which 
are no longer suitable for their original use.

O2.  To ensure that adaptive reuse of heritage items 

respects the significance of the place.

O3.  To ensure that the impacts of adaptive reuse on 

heritage items is minimised.

Where original use is discontinued, 
adaptive reuse which requires minimal 
change to fabric may be considered.

Where adaptive reuse requires 
unacceptable degree of change due 
to legislative compliance, alternative 
solutions may be sought, or the proposed 
change of use may not be supported.

Building Design 

Objectives

O4.  To ensure that alterations and additions to a 

building as a result of adaptive reuse relate to the 
architectural qualities of the existing building.

O5.  To ensure that changes to the building as a result 
of adaptive reuse can be interpreted in the future 
as belonging to its applicable historical period. 

Additions to a building as part of adaptive 
reuse should be designed to respect 
the original architectural qualities of the 
building such as building form, façade 
articulation, fenestration pattern, parapet 
profile and detail, materials and colours.

Retention of only the facades of the 
building is not acceptable.

New work necessary in the adaptive 
reuse of a heritage item should be 
distinguishable from original work on a 
close inspection.

Controls

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

Structure

Objective

O6.  To retain original building structure and fabric.

Controls

C6. 

Fire engineered solutions should be 
sought to allow retention of original 
structural systems that would otherwise 
not meet “deemed to comply” provisions 
of the Building Code of Australia.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-66 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
D3   Development in the vicinity of heritage items

Development near a heritage item can have adverse 
impacts on the heritage item. This may be as a result 
of blocking views to or from the heritage item, affecting 
trees or landscape elements, or the setting that is part 
of the heritage item. It can also have an adverse impact 
by obscuring the landmark qualities of a heritage item. 
New development in the vicinity of a heritage item 
should take into consideration the importance of that 
item in the local streetscape or townscape. It should 
also ensure that important views to and from the 
heritage item are not lost or compromised.

In most cases, development in the vicinity of a heritage 
item will only affect properties that share a boundary 
with or are opposite a heritage item. In a few cases, 
development in the vicinity of a heritage item might 
have wider impacts. An example of this might be where 
important views of a landmark building such as a 
church spire could be lost due to a new development.

D3.1  Setting

Setting is the area around a heritage item that 
contributes to its heritage significance and may include 
the visual catchment of a heritage item. Topography, 
trees, gardens, fencing, and pavement can all 
contribute to the setting of a heritage item. Where 
a heritage item has importance as a landmark, it is 
particularly important that new development in the 
vicinity of the heritage item does not obscure its visual 
presence in the streetscape and/or townscape.

Objectives

O1.  To ensure the setting of heritage items is not 

compromised by development in the vicinity of the 
heritage item.

O2.  To ensure that new development respects the 

contribution of heritage items to the streetscape 
and/or townscape.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

The setbacks of new development in the 
vicinity of a built heritage item should 
generally be equal to or greater than that 
of the heritage item.

Development in the vicinity of a heritage 
item should not have a scale, bulk or 
height that is incongruous with the setting 
of the heritage item.

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

Important views to or from a heritage item 
should not be impacted or obscured by 
new development.

Where a heritage item is part of a 
streetscape of buildings of consistent 
style, form and materials, development 
in the vicinity of the heritage item 
should incorporate elements of the 
dominant style, form and materials in the 
streetscape.

Where trees are integral to the 
significance of a heritage item, 
development should not be allowed within 
the primary root zone.

Development in the vicinity of a heritage 
item should not adversely affect its setting 
by introducing an uncharacteristic building 
or element.

D3.2  Scale

Scale is the size of a building and its relationship with 
its surrounding buildings or landscape. Buildings of 
inappropriate scale, in the vicinity of a heritage item, 
can detract from its contribution to the streetscape and/
or townscape.

Objective

O1.  To ensure that new development in the vicinity 

of a heritage item is of a scale that does not 
undermine the significance of the heritage item.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

The scale of new development in the 
vicinity of a built heritage item should not 
be greater than that of the heritage item. 

Development of a larger scale is allowable 
only if the new development will not be 
seen when viewing the heritage item from 
the public realm.

New development that obscures important 
views of a heritage item should not be 
permitted. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-67 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D3.3  Siting

D3.4  Materials and Colours

New development should take into consideration 
the dominant original materials of heritage items in 
the vicinity of the development. Materials should be 
selected so that attention is not drawn away from the 
heritage item to the new development. 

Objective

O1.  To ensure that new development in the vicinity 

of a heritage item does not detract from the 
importance of the heritage item in the streetscape.

Controls

C1. 

Materials and colours for development 
in the vicinity of a heritage item shall be 
selected to avoid stark contrast of the 
adjacent development where this would 
result in the visual importance of the 
heritage item being reduced.

Siting relates to the position of the building on the site 
and includes the orientation of a building in relation to 
the street as well as the setbacks of the building from 
the boundaries.

Setbacks define the overall footprint of a building and 
the outer extremities of that building in relation to the 
front, side and rear boundaries. 

Setbacks of buildings in the vicinity of heritage items 
can be of importance in ensuring the retention of 
important views to and from the heritage item. In some 
cases, it is also necessary to consider the potential 
impact of the building on important landscape elements 
associated with the heritage item.

Objectives

O1.  To ensure new development in the vicinity of a 

heritage item is sited so that it does not obscure 
important views to or from the heritage item.

O2.  To ensure that new development in the vicinity 

of a heritage item does not adversely impact 
landscape elements that are or are associated 
with a heritage item.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

The setback of new development 
(including alterations and additions) in 
the vicinity of a heritage item should 
ensure that important views to or from the 
heritage item are not adversely impacted.

The setback of new development in the 
vicinity of a heritage item should ensure 
that landscape elements associated 
with or listed as a heritage item are not 
adversely affected by the development.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-68 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
D4   Development in and in the vicinity of Heritage Conservation Areas

Heritage Conservation Areas (Conservation Areas) 
usually have a strong streetscape or townscape 
character resulting from development of similar 
style, scale, form and materials during a relatively 
short period of time. However, a conservation area 
is more than a place that looks good because of its 
streetscape, design, neighbourhood amenity, or the 
individual buildings it contains. Conservation Areas 
have a sense of place which is hard to define and hard 
to replace. This is because their character reflects not 
just the buildings in the area, but also the reasons 
for the buildings, the changing social and economic 
conditions over time, and the physical responses to 
those changes. 

For development within a conservation area, it is 
important to appreciate the character and significance 
of that area when designing additions, alterations or 
infill development. An analysis of key aspects of each 
Conservation Area is given in Appendix 1. Appendix 1 
also provides maps indicating if a property is considered 
to be a contributory item to the conservation area (i.e. 
it is considered to contribute to the heritage value of 
the Conservation Area) or whether it is considered 
to be neutral in the conservation area or whether it 
is considered to be infill development (i.e it does not 
contribute to the heritage value of the Conservation 
Area).

For work to buildings within a conservation area, the 
following guidelines should be read in conjunction 
with the description and analysis of the relevant 
conservation area found in Appendix 1. 

The following outlines the criteria for determining 
whether a place is considered to be contributory, neutral 
or infill within the conservation area.

•  Contributory: Built during a period directly relating to 

the significance of the conservation area as identified 
in the statement of significance for the conservation 
area. The original form of the building is substantially 
intact, or where additions have been made to the 
building that are visible in the main streetscape, the 
additions have respected the original style and form 
of the building.

•  Neutral: Built during a period relating to the 

significance of the conservation area as identified 
in the statement of significance for the conservation 
area, but has been substantially altered so that the 
original style or character of the building is obscured 
and the alterations are unlikely to be reversed. New 
sympathetic layer or representative of a new layer. 
Non significant historical period layer.

•  Infill: Built in a period later than any relating to 

the significance of the conservation area and is a 
detracting element.

D4.1  Setting 

Setting relates to the space and details around buildings 
in a conservation area that contribute to its heritage 
significance and may include the visual catchment of 
a conservation area. Street trees, gardens, fencing 
and pavement can all contribute to the setting of a 
conservation area. The setback of buildings from the 
street and the space between buildings also contribute 
to the setting of a place. 

Objectives

O1.  To provide an appropriate visual setting for 

conservation areas, including landscaping, fencing 
and carparking.

O2.  To maintain and enhance the existing character of 

the streetscape of a conservation area.

O3.  To ensure that new development respects the 

established patterns in the streetscape of a 
conservation area, including setbacks, siting, 
landscaped settings, carparking and fencing.

O4.  To ensure that the character of the conservation 

area is retained and enhanced.

O5.  Contributory buildings, places and components 

of conservation areas are to be retained and not 
demolished.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-69 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

C7. 

C8. 

C9. 

C10.   

C11.   

The side and front setbacks of new 
development in and in the vicinity of a 
conservation area should be similar to the 
spacing of contributory buildings in that 
conservation area.

New buildings should conform to the 
orientation pattern of existing buildings in 
the area.

No new structures should be built forward 
of the established street building line.

The established landscape character of 
the locality including the height of canopy 
and density of boundary landscape 
plantings should be retained in any new 
development.

Neutral and intrusive buildings may be 
demolished if the replacement building 
makes a greater contribution to the 
character of the area than the existing 
building.

New work in a heritage conservation area 
is to respect the relevant contributory 
components of that conservation area.

Additions are to be set behind the main 
body of the existing house so that they 
have limited visibility.

The existing house, where contributory, 
is to be the visually dominant element of 
a site. 

Maintain the historical pattern of 
development of individual buildings on 
separate allotments of land separated by 
garden space.

Maintain front garden areas with lawns 
and associated pathways as traditional 
garden settings for houses.

Keep at least 60% of the site as garden 
space.  Council will consider a minimum 
garden space of 50% where allotments 
are less than 700 m2. Swimming pools, 
paved hard stands and other artificial 
areas are not considered part of garden 
space.

C12.   

C13.   

A minimum of 80m2 of private open space 
is to be provided to each house at ground 
level, with minimum dimensions of 4m.

Minimum setback to the front alignment 
for new buildings is 8 metres, or average 
of setbacks of immediately adjoining 
houses on either side.

C14.   

Side walls should not exceed 7 metres in 
length.

D4.2  Scale

Scale is the size of a building and its relationship with 
its surrounding buildings or landscape. It is important 
that new development in conservation areas respects 
the scale of the existing buildings and/or landscape 
elements that contribute to the significance of the 
conservation area.

Objectives

O1.  To ensure that new development in or in the 

vicinity of a conservation area is of a scale 
consistent with the existing development in the 
vicinity of the site that contributes to the character 
of the heritage conservation area.

O2.  To ensure that additions and alterations to a 

building within a conservation area are of a scale 
consistent with the contributory buildings in the 
conservation area.

O3.  To ensure that landmark buildings which 

will generally be surrounded by buildings of 
lower scale are not diminished by large scale 
development in the vicinity.

Controls

C1. 

For new buildings, keep and repeat 
the single storey scale with maximum 
wall height to relate to nearby 
contributory buildings or heritage items 
(notwithstanding landmark mansions, 
public buildings, schools etc.).  New 
buildings should utilise architectural 
language compatible to that of the area 
and the adjacent streetscape, including 
scale, roof form and slope, massing, 
proportions, fenestration patterns, 
materials, finishes, colours and other 
features.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-70 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

New development should follow 
the natural slope of grounds. Cuts, 
excavations or infill of natural ground 
levels should be limited to 1m.

For new buildings, use face brick, clay 
tiles or corrugated iron, painted timber 
and other materials predominant in the 
area. Do not use hearted, speckled, 
multicoloured or textured bricks in light 
colours, or glazed tiles. Preference is 
given to materials in darker, recessive 
colours.

Preferred forms of additions are linked 
pavilions or skillion extensions. Additions 
to front or side of an existing dwelling are 
not supported.

Rear additions are to be formed within 
existing side setbacks of the house, in 
order to preserve views and glimpses of 
light between houses.

Maximum wall height of a pavilion 
extension should not exceed the wall 
height of the existing house, as measured 
externally from the ground to under the 
eaves. Links to rear pavilion additions 
should be lower and the roof space 
above the original house should not be 
integrated with the addition.

D4.3  Form and detailing 

The form of a building is its overall shape and volume 
and the arrangement of its parts. The rooflines of 
buildings, and elements such as chimneys, parapet 
walls, verandahs etc can contribute greatly to the 
character of an area. 

Objectives

O1.  To ensure that new development in a conservation 
area relates positively to the dominant forms of 
existing contributory buildings in the conservation 
area. 

O2.  To ensure that buildings that contribute to the 

character of a conservation area retain their 
importance in the streetscape and/or townscape.

O3.  To encourage authentic restoration or 

reconstruction based on documentary (research) 
or physical evidence.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

C7. 

C8. 

Important elements of the form of a 
contributory building in a conservation 
area such as main roof forms, chimneys, 
parapet walls, verandahs etc should not 
be demolished or obscured by alterations 
and additions.

The roof forms of new development in or 
in the vicinity of a conservation area are 
to complement the original roof forms of 
existing nearby buildings that contribute to 
the conservation area.

Chimneys and roof features such 
as ventilation gablets should not be 
removed from contributory buildings in a 
conservation area.

Additions should utilise same or similar 
materials as the existing house, or lighter 
weight materials, such as painted timber.

Additions and alterations to existing 
buildings that contribute to the character 
of a conservation area should not detract 
from the original form of the existing 
building as viewed from the public realm.

Additions should utilise architectural 
language compatible to that of the original 
house. This includes scale, massing, roof 
form and slope, proportions, fenestration 
patterns, materials, finishes, colours and 
other externally visible features.

The treatment of the street façade of 
new development in or in the vicinity 
of a conservation area should relate to 
existing nearby buildings that contribute 
to the conservation area. This should 
include consideration of the massing and 
modifications of the building, proportions 
of verandahs and height.

Verandahs on the front and sides of 
buildings within a conservation area 
should not be infilled and inappropriate 
infill or enclosure should be reversed.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-71 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C9. 

C10.   

Keep existing roof forms on original 
houses visible in their original form.  
Additional rooms above the existing main 
body of the house should be within the 
existing roof cavities as seen from the 
street, ventilated by flat in-plane windows 
facing the rear.  Alterations of roof form, 
dormer windows, or mansard roofs are 
not supported.

C10. Council may consider extra rooms 
above the main body of a house or in the 
pavilion addition at the rear of a house 
provided:

a)   the original roof design and features 

are clearly apparent, and

b)   the scale of the building does not 

disrupt the continuity of the scale and 
character of houses when viewed from 
the street, and

c)   roof space above the original house 
should is not integrated with the 
addition.

C11.   

C12.   

C13.   

Open verandahs visible from the public 
domain are to be retained.

Inappropriate changes, such as the 
enclosure of front verandahs, are to be 
reversed.

“Pop top” roof additions are not 
acceptable as the main roof is to be 
retained.

D4.4  Siting

Siting relates to the position of the building on the site 
and includes the orientation of a building in relation to 
the street as well as the setbacks of the building from 
the boundaries.

Most buildings in a conservation area are oriented to 
the street frontage. The regular orientation of buildings 
contributes to the pattern and rhythm of the streetscape.

Setbacks define the overall footprint of a building and 
the outer extremities of that building in relation to the 
front, side and rear boundaries. In conservation areas, 
setbacks are of greater importance in establishing the 
continuity of the streetscape. Side setbacks are also of 
importance in providing separation between buildings 
and establishing a rhythm in the streetscape.

Objectives

O1.  To integrate new development in or in the vicinity 
of a conservation areas into the established 
pattern of the streetscape.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

The front setback of new development 
(including alterations and additions) 
in or in the vicinity of conservation 
areas should match that of adjacent 
contributory development. Where adjacent 
developments have different setbacks, 
new development should align with the 
greater setback.

Side setbacks of new development 
(including alterations and additions) in 
or in the vicinity of conservation areas 
should match the pattern of adjacent and/
or nearby contributory development. This 
will often include a greater setback on 
one side of the development to provide 
vehicular access at the side of a property.

The orientation of new development in 
or in the vicinity of conservation areas 
should follow the established pattern of 
development in the conservation area.

Where trees are important to a 
conservation area, new buildings should 
be sited away from the drip line of the 
trees.

D4.5  Materials and colours

The quality of many of the conservation areas in 
Canada Bay is reinforced by the use of a cohesive 
palette of materials and colours. Use of sympathetic 
materials and colours can help new development to 
blend into existing streetscapes.

Development that includes changing roof materials, 
reskinning, rendering or painting of face brickwork can 
degrade the character of a conservation area.

New development should take into consideration the 
dominant original materials of contributory development 
in the conservation area. Where there are contributory 
buildings of differing materials in close proximity to the 

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-72 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
proposed development, the building that reflects the 
dominant period of development in the conservation 
area should be given greater consideration when 
selecting materials.

Objectives

O1.  To encourage external materials on new 

development in or in the vicinity of conservation 
areas that is consistent with the original materials 
of existing contributory building stock in a 
conservation area.

O2.  To encourage colour schemes which complement 

the style of the building. 

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

Original materials of contributory buildings 
in conservation areas should not be 
replaced with different materials, or with 
materials of different colours. 

Non-original materials of existing 
contributory buildings in conservation 
areas that are being replaced shall, if 
possible, be replaced with material that 
matches the original material as closely 
as possible.

Painting, rendering, bagging or 
re-skinning of face brickwork and 
sandstone is not permitted.

Painting or rendering original face brick 
walls is not permitted, and re-skinning 
may exceptionally be considered where 
condition of fabric does not allow its 
further retention. Timber houses may 
be re-clad with timber weatherboards of 
a profile to match existing. Re- roofing 
should use materials matching original.

Materials for new development in or in the 
vicinity of conservation areas should be 
compatible with the original materials of 
the dominant contributory buildings in the 
conservation area. 

C6. 

C7. 

C8. 

C9. 

Colour schemes for existing and new 
development in or in the vicinity of 
conservation areas should have a hue 
and tonal relationship with traditional 
colour schemes for the dominant style of 
development in the conservation area

The use of fluorescent paint and primary 
colours on buildings in or in the vicinity of 
conservation areas is not permitted.

The use of modern finishes including 
stencilled concrete for driveways in or in 
the vicinity of conservation areas is not 
permitted.

Original features of contributory buildings 
in conservation areas are to be retained 
and repaired. If missing, they are to be 
replaced.

D4.6  Doors and Windows

The spacing, proportions and detailing of doors and 
windows of buildings in or in the vicinity of conservation 
areas usually contributes to the quality of the 
streetscape. Altering windows and doors or adding 
new openings can dramatically affect the character 
of a building and gradually erode the character and 
streetscape of a conservation area.

Objectives

O1.  To retain original door and window details of 
contributory buildings in conservation areas.

O2.  To ensure that original or significant doors and 
windows are not obscured or altered by fittings 
and additions.

O3.  To ensure that new development in or in the 

vicinity of a conservation area has fenestration 
patterns and proportions consistent with original 
development in the conservation area. 

Controls

C1. 

Extensive areas of glazing are not 
permitted for doors and windows visible 
from the public realm on buildings within 
or in the vicinity of a conservation area.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-73 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

C7. 

Original door and window openings visible 
from the public realm on contributory 
buildings in a conservation area should 
not be widened.

Original doors and windows visible 
from the public realm on contributory 
buildings in a conservation area should be 
conserved.

Additions to windows, including security 
bars, grilles and shutters, should be 
located inside the window, so as not to 
obscure windows or adversely affect the 
external appearance of buildings.

Additions to external doors, including 
security screens and grilles, should not 
obscure or distort the form of doors or the 
original character of buildings.

New door and window openings to 
contributory buildings in a conservation 
area that are visible from the public realm 
should be of proportions and details 
that relate to existing door and window 
openings.

Where non-original joinery to doors and 
windows of buildings in a conservation 
area that are visible from the public realm 
is being replaced, the details of the new 
joinery should be based evidence of the 
original joinery to doors and windows in 
the building.

C8. 

Skylights should be located on rear roof 
slopes where they will not be visible in the 
public realm.

C9. 

Dormer windows are not appropriate.

D4.7  Carparking

Garages and carports can have the greatest detrimental 
impact on the aesthetic qualities of conservation 
areas. Garages and carports in front of the building 
line obscure views of the contributory buildings and 
break the rhythm and pattern of the streetscape. The 
proportions of garage doors does not relate to the 
smaller and more vertical proportions of windows and 
doors usually found on contributory buildings within 
conservation areas.

Objective

O1.  To ensure that, where possible, garages and 
carports are designed to minimise the visual 
impact on the streetscape of conservation areas. 

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

Garages and carports must be located as 
far behind the front building alignment as 
possible and at least 1m behind front wall.

Garages should not be incorporated into 
the building in a conservation area.

Where possible, garages are to be 
located on the rear lane.

Maintain the established pattern of one 
opening per allotment for car access. Any 
new vehicular crossover must avoid tree 
protection zones of street trees.

Driveways and crossovers should be 
made of concrete, bitumen, gravel, dark 
bricks or other non-obtrusive material. 
Wheel tracks with central grass/planting 
are preferred to fully paved driveway 
space.

Maintain the historical pattern of back 
garden placement of garages, sheds 
and other utility buildings, fully detached 
from the house. Garages should not be 
integrated into the existing or new house 
or addition. Residential rooms or areas 
should not be created above garages.

C7. 

Carports may be sited beside the house 
only where they:

a)   are constructed of light weight frame 
of timber or metal, without enclosures 

b)   stand at least 1 m back from the front 

wall of the building, and

c)   are fully detached from the building 
and do not obstruct light into the 
building.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-74 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D4.8  Fencing 

Fencing, particularly fencing facing the street, is of 
particular importance in conservation areas. Consistent 
and uniform fencing can contribute significantly to the 
streetscape and character of a conservation area. 
Fencing should complement the style and scale of 
the house. Inappropriate fencing can detract from the 
streetscape by interrupting the pattern of development 
and by obscuring views.

Objectives

O1.  To conserve gates and fences that are early or 

contemporary with contributory buildings in a 
conservation area.

O2.  To ensure new fences and gates are consistent 
with the character of the conservation area 
and in particular with contributory housing in a 
conservation area.

O3.  To ensure that the quality of the streetscape 

or townscape in a conservation area is not 
diminished by inappropriate fencing in or in the 
vicinity of a conservation area.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

Keep existing fences that are 
contemporary and contribute to the 
understanding of the history and 
development of the area.

Retain existing and allow new timber 
paling fences to side and back 
boundaries. Metal clad fences are not 
supported in conservation areas.

For new developments, use new front low 
brick fences (under 1.2m high) designed 
to match the materials of the house 
and associated metal gates on front 
boundaries of properties. Sliding gates 
and automated gates are not supported.

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

C7. 

C8. 

For contributory houses, allow new front 
fences under 1.2m high appropriate to 
style and period of the house, including 
wire mesh, timber, or brick. New timber 
picket fences are supported only where 
these are a historical feature of the area.  
Low brick fences topped with timber 
railings are not supported. Lych gates and 
arbours may be acceptable if accurate 
reconstructions of originals. Sliding gates 
and automated gates are not supported.

Unless documentary or physical evidence 
is provided to establish a greater height, 
fencing forward of the building line 
constructed of solid material such as 
masonry, should not be greater than 
900mm in height above the adjacent 
public footpath level. In all cases, the 
height of fencing should relate to the style 
of the house and width of the allotment.

Unless documentary or physical evidence 
is provided to establish a greater height, 
fencing forward of the building line 
constructed of material such as timber 
pickets, metal palisades or wrought metal 
should not be greater than 1.2m in height 
above the adjacent public footpath level.

Original face brick or sandstone fencing 
in a conservation area should not be 
painted.

Original sandstone walls are to be 
retained and repaired if necessary.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-75 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D4.9  Landscape elements 
including paving and 
driveways

Landscape elements are of great importance in 
contributing to the aesthetic quality of conservation 
areas. They can often be landmarks and contribute to 
the setting of a building. The design of front gardens 
provides a setting for the house and reinforces the 
character of the place. In many conservation areas, 
street plantings are an integral part of the original 
design of the area. 

Objectives

O1.  To retain important landscape elements and 

the landscape setting that contribute to the 
significance of conservation areas.

O2.  To reinforce the original and significant qualities 

of the conservation area through appropriate 
landscaping.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

Street trees in conservation areas 
should not be removed to allow for new 
development.

Established trees, shrubs, boundary 
planting and garden layouts that 
contribute to the significance and setting 
of the conservation area should not be 
removed.

When designing new gardens, reference 
should be made to surviving plants and 
garden elements which indicate the basic 
garden structure, and can be worked into 
new appropriate designs that complement 
the style of the building.

Existing driveways and footpath crossings 
that relate to original development in 
a conservation area should not be 
relocated.

Double driveways and footpath crossings 
will not be permitted in conservation 
areas.

C6. 

C7. 

C8. 

New driveways should be pairs of 
driveway strips constructed of off-white 
or red oxide coloured concrete, or brick 
on edge, with grass or ground cover 
between.

Established trees, shrubs and garden 
layouts that contribute to the significance 
and setting of the conservation area 
should be retained.

Where original landscaping elements 
have been removed, their reinstatement is 
encouraged.

D4.10  Outbuildings

Early or significant outbuildings, such as sleep-
outs, shade-houses and pergolas are important in 
contributing to the aesthetic quality, setting and story of 
use and development of a place.

New outbuildings such as garden sheds, outhouses, 
gazebos and pool pavilions can easily detract from the 
quality of the streetscape. The location and setting of 
these must be carefully considered so that they have 
minimal impact on the streetscape.

Objective

O1.  To minimise visual intrusion on the streetscape 
of the conservation area and views from public 
places due to outbuildings.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

Original or significant outbuildings 
including sleep-outs, shade-houses 
and pergolas should be retained and 
conserved.

Outbuildings should be located in the rear 
yard of properties within a conservation 
area.

Outbuildings should be single storey and 
designed so that they have no impact, on 
the streetscape and setting.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-76 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D4.11  Modern Technologies 

D4.13  Subdivision

Modern technologies can include fixtures such as solar 
electricity collectors, television aerials and satellite 
dishes. These are usually large elements and are often 
intrusive elements in a roofscape.

Objective

O1.  To ensure that modern technologies do not 

impact on the streetscape and/or townscape in 
conservation areas.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

Modern technologies such as solar 
electricity collectors, television aerials and 
satellite dishes are to be located on roof 
slopes facing the rear of a property in 
conservation areas.

Modern technologies should not be higher 
than the main ridge line of a building 
and shall be located so that they are 
not visible from the public realm in a 
conservation area.

D4.12  Demolition

Demolition of buildings within a conservation area can 
gradually diminish the qualities of the conservation 
area. It is important that contributory buildings in the 
conservation area are retained.

Objective

O1.  To retain the contributory buildings in a 

conservation area.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

Contributory buildings within a 
conservation area should not be 
demolished.

Post WWII additions to contributory 
buildings in a conservation area that are 
not visible from the public realm may be 
demolished subject to assessment of the 
contribution that the additions make to the 
heritage value of the conservation area.

Demolition of rear outbuildings in 
conservation areas is generally 
acceptable. For places listed as heritage 
items, additional restrictions might apply.

The subdivision patterns of many conservation areas 
is important in the existing streetscape. The regular 
sizes of blocks together with the regular setbacks of 
buildings helps to establish a rhythm to the streetscape.  
Consolidation of allotments often results in larger 
buildings that have an undesirable impact on the pattern 
of the streetscape. Similarly, subdivision of allotments 
can result in development with inadequate setbacks 
and/or narrow allotments that break the pattern of the 
streetscape.

Objective

O1.  To retain subdivision patterns that contribute to 

the rhythm of streetscapes in conservation areas.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

Consolidation of allotments of an early 
subdivision within a heritage group or 
heritage conservation area should not be 
allowed.

Subdivision of allotments of an early 
subdivision within a conservation area 
should not be allowed.

New subdivision within a heritage 
group or heritage conservation area 
should reinforce the original pattern of 
development within the heritage group or 
heritage conservation area.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-77 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D4.14  Signs

Many commercial buildings built in the late nineteenth 
and early twentieth century incorporate areas on the 
main façade designed for locating a sign to identify the 
business operating within. This allows for appropriate 
signage while the unity of the streetscape is retained.

Residential streetscapes in conservation areas can 
be obscured by inappropriate signage. On most late 
nineteenth century and early twentieth century buildings, 
house names are incorporated into the building or 
placed on a small sign fixed to a wall near the front 
door.

Objectives

O1.  To allow for appropriate signage on commercial 

buildings in conservation areas.

O2.  To ensure the original details of buildings 

in conservation areas are not obscured by 
inappropriate signage.

O3.  To ensure that signage does not have a 
detrimental impact on residential parts of 
conservation areas.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

All commercial signs on a heritage item or 
a building in heritage conservation area 
are to be restrained in visual prominence, 
of design compatible with style of the 
building, of high standard of materials, 
construction and graphics, and carefully 
placed in an appropriate location avoiding 
damage to the significant fabric.

Any sign proposed for a heritage 
item is to be consistent with the 
recommendations of any approved 
Signs Strategy forming part of a 
development consent or the policies and 
recommendations of any Conservation 
Management Plan applying to the 
heritage item.

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

C7. 

C8. 

Signage should include clear business 
identification by name and type, and 
should not include contact details, 
products offered or promotional 
messages. Graphics may be assessed for 
potential impact on heritage values.

New signs should be located in areas 
or elements of buildings that have 
traditionally been used for signage.  Signs 
between the awning level and the parapet 
of a heritage item or a building in heritage 
conservation area are not permissible.

Shops in heritage listed buildings or in 
conservation areas are limited two signs 
per frontage, and other commercial 
tenants one sign per frontage from these 
types:

a)   Awning fascia sign,
b)   Under-awning sign, and
c)   Above-entry (hamper) sign.

In addition to the above, commercial 
tenants including shops are permitted 
traditional gilded lettering to glass.  Areas 
under lettering should be limited to 5% of 
the overall glass area.

In addition to the above, commercial 
tenants including shops are permitted 
intrinsic sign types, such as written in 
the pavement, in tile work, etc.  Any new 
intrinsic signs are to be designed and 
installed sympathetically with regard to 
existing intrinsic signs. In cases this may 
result in the potential locations for new 
signs being restricted or unavailable. 
Significant intrinsic signs in lead lighting 
or windows, painted on walls or as raised 
lettering in render must be conserved in 
situ. Any other significant existing signs 
need to be retained.

Internally illuminated signs are not 
permitted on a heritage item or a building 
in heritage conservation area unless 
they are a reconstruction of an original 
significant sign.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-78 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C9. 

C10.   

C11.   

Externally illuminated signs are permitted 
only where cabling and conduit supplying 
power to the sign is completely concealed 
and does not involve intervention in or 
damage to significant fabric.

The installation of any sign on a heritage 
item is to be carried out in a reversible 
manner without damage to the significant 
fabric. In the case of a sign affixed to 
any stone or brick wall of a heritage item 
the sign is to be fixed in such a way that 
stone is not damaged and any fixings are 
put only onto mortar joints.

The consent authority shall have regard 
to the name of a heritage item and 
whether or not the name is significant 
before allowing its building name sign to 
be changed. On some buildings this may 
mean that the building name may not be 
changed.

Canada Bay DCP - Part D             ########PageD-79 

Development Control Plan Part D     HeritageCITY OF CANADA BAY  
E

PART E - RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT



Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-80 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY E1  Design Quality

E1.1  Design of dwelling houses, 
dual occupancies and 
semi-detached dwellings 

Objectives

New buildings and alterations and additions should: 

O1.  Reflect the dominant building pattern of 

the streetscape with regard to the location, 
spacing and proportion of built elements in the 
streetscape.

O2.  Complement and conserve the visual character of 
the street and neighbourhood through appropriate 
building scale, form, detail and finish.

O3.  Reinforce existing streetscape features such as 

building setbacks, alignments, heights and fence 
design.

O4.  Ensure that development conserves and respects 

significant streetscape items (such as street tree 
planting) and points of interest (such as views to 
waterways).

Street presentation

Controls

C1. 

Buildings adjacent to the street should 
address the street by having a front 
door and/ or living room addressing the 
street. The frontage of buildings should 
by their design, and the location of entries 
(including pedestrian pathways), be 
readily apparent from the street.

Front facade articulation

Controls

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

New buildings and additions should be 
designed with an articulated front façade - 
See Figure E1.1.

The front façade should comply with the 
following requirements:

•  Where a garage is attached to a 

dwelling it must not be located within 
the primary façade; and

• 

The secondary building façade should 
be set back a minimum of 1.5 metres 
from the primary building façade.

Entry alcoves recessed into, or protruding 
from, the front facade will not be 
considered as an articulated front facade.

Secondary building façade must not 
exceed 55% of the total site frontage and 
must be setback 1.5m from the primary 
building façade.

Primary Building façade must not exceed 
40% of the total site frontage.

The ground floor of the primary building 
facade must contain a habitable room.

Refer to Figure E1.1

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-81 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
Roof design

Controls

C7. 

C8. 

C9. 

C10.   

C11.   

Use a similar roof pitch, form and 
materials to those predominantly 
identified in the Streetscape 
Character Analysis.

Where the prevailing roof form 
identified in the streetscape 
character analysis comprises a 
pitched roof, the roof pitches should 
be a minimum of 25 degrees.

Where it is considered that the 
streetscape will not be significantly 
altered and on the basis of 
improving the solar access or view 
corridors of nearby residential 
properties, Council may consider 
lower roof pitches than 25 degrees.

Dwelling designs must have a 
minimum eave overhang of 450mm 
(excluding the gutter).

Dormers are not to have a height 
of more than 1.5 metres from base 
to ridge.

0
0
5
1

Secondary building facade must not exceed
55% of the total site frontage and must be
set back 1.5m from the primary building facade

Primary building facade must not exceed
40% of the total site frontage

Secondary
facade

Primary
facade

Total site frontage

Note: All dimensions are in millimetres

Figure E1.1 -  Example of front facade articulation control

Illustration 5.11 Example of front facade articulation control
integrated

solutions.com.au

design

www.

2009 |

©

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-82 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
Verandahs

Controls

C12.   

C13.   

Existing original verandahs should be 
retained.

The enclosure of original verandahs 
visible in the streetscape is not permitted. 
Enclosed verandahs are intrusive 
elements and should be re-opened and 
restored wherever possible.

Balconies

Controls

C14.   

The enclosure of balconies visible in the 
streetscape is not permitted. Balconies on 
existing housing visible in the streetscape 
should not be enclosed. Existing enclosed 
balconies should be re-opened and 
restored wherever possible.

Additions to semi-detached dwellings

Controls

C15.   

C16.   

Any alteration and addition to an 
individual semi or terrace should 
recognise it as being one pair or group 
of similar, identical or complementary 
buildings. In this regard, any extension 
should be carefully integrated with the 
building to which it is attached, both in 
its present form and on the assumption 
that the adjoining owner may wish to 
undertake extensions in the future.

First floor additions should be set back 
from the principal street frontage of the 
building, in order to maintain a substantial 
portion of the existing roof unaltered over 
the front of the building and to locate the 
bulk of new development towards the 
rear. First floor additions should be set 
back beyond the apex or main ridge of 
the principal roof form of the building and 
should retain chimneys

C17.   

The choice of materials utilised 
on additions and alterations to a 
semi-detached dwelling should 
complement the building as a whole.

Design of attached dual occupancies

Objective

O1.  Ensure that the design of attached dual 

occupancies complements and enhances the 
character and streetscape of their locality and 
protects the amenity of neighbouring properties.

Controls

C18.   

C19.   

C20.   

Attached dual occupancies should be 
designed to have the appearance of a 
typical, single occupancy dwelling house 
when viewed from the street or a public 
place.

One dwelling in a dual occupancy should 
not extend into the rear yard further than 5 
metres beyond the other.

Attached dual occupancies should 
reflect the building form and roof lines 
of adjoining dwellings, where a pattern 
is established by a group of adjoining 
houses.

Driveways and access ways for attached dual 
occupancies

Controls

C21.   

C22.   

C23.   

No more than one third of the width of the 
frontage of a property should be used for 
driveways and access ways.

The provision of access to garages 
and additional parking spaces for dual 
occupancy dwellings should minimise 
paved surfaces to the front of the building.

Garages for each dwelling within an 
attached dual occupancy should be single 
car width only.

C24.    Where all existing dwellings are located 
to the left or right side of their respective 
allotment and have a side driveway, this 
pattern should also be observed by the 
design of the attached dual occupancy.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-83 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY E1.2  Design of residential flat 

Building height

buildings and multi dwelling 
housing

Controls

C1. 

The Objectives and controls contained within this part of 
the DCP support the design quality principles of State 
Environmental Planning Policy No. 65 – Design Quality 
of Residential Flat Development (SEPP 65).

The Principles apply to proposals subject to SEPP 65, 
that is, residential buildings that comprise or include:

a)   3 or more storeys (not including levels below ground 
levels provided for car parking or storage, or both, 
that protrude less than 1.2 metres above ground 
level), and

b)   4 or more self-contained dwellings (whether or not 
the building includes uses for other purposes, such 
as shops), but do not include a Class 1a building 
or a Class 1b building under the Building Code of 
Australia (e.g townhouses or villas where dwellings 
are side by side).

This DCP adopts design quality principles contained 
within the SEPP65 and the Apartment Design Guide, 
Department of Planning, 2015

Alterations and additions to multi dwelling 
housing and residential flat buildings

Objectives

O1.  To provide a set of controls for the external 
alteration or modification of existing multiple 
dwelling residential developments.

O2.  The controls aim to ensure that development is 
aesthetically, environmentally and harmoniously 
compatible with the original Development 
Consent.

O3.  To maintain the internal and external streetscape 
or other design and appearance qualities 
which contribute to the character, identity and 
acceptability of the approved development.

Roofs

Controls

C2. 

Other than attic conversions a proposal 
which creates the impression of an 
additional level externally to what was 
originally approved by Council will not be 
permitted.

The pitch (slope) of any roof facing or 
visible from a street or public place is to 
match the approved development.

Where the roof cannot be seen from any 
street or public place, Council may allow 
some change to the form and/or pitch.

Attic conversions

Controls

C3. 

Balconies

Controls

C4. 

In approved developments where a close 
unity and harmonious design prevails, 
the uniformity and coherence of the 
streetscape/appearance (either internal or 
external) should be maintained. 

Attic windows may be permitted if 
it is in character with the general 
architectural design of the development, 
is appropriately proportioned and has no 
doors or balconies.

The enclosure or addition of balconies 
or the addition of awnings after a 
building has been completed will not be 
acceptable unless the overall design is in 
keeping with the approved architectural 
theme.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-84 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
Privacy and overlooking

Landscaping

Controls

C5. 

Views

Controls

C6. 

Care is to be taken to avoid any 
changes creating opportunities of further 
overlooking of other dwellings including 
private open space and pedestrian access 
ways. Care must also be taken not to 
inhibit the use of any areas provided for 
public open space or foreshore access 
through overlooking.

Council shall consider whether reasonable 
privacy is maintained when making its 
determination.

Care should be taken to protect views 
from existing buildings and public areas. 
Development proposals should be 
designed to minimise impact on the views 
enjoyed by adjoining buildings or sites by 
maintaining view corridors in relation to 
other dwellings, buildings or place.

Council shall consider whether any views 
are affected.

Controls

C8. 

Existing landscaping is to remain in 
accordance with plans approved by 
Council and not be varied except 
with Council’s consent. A reduction in 
landscaping from the approved scheme is 
generally not favoured. Where permitted, 
Council may require some additional 
landscaping to be placed elsewhere. 
An increase in areas of hard paving will 
generally not be acceptable.

Vergolas/pergolas

Controls

C9. 

A vergola/pergola must be attached to 
the building but not enclosed in any way. 
Pergolas/Vergolas are not permitted in 
any building setbacks, or where they will 
adversely affect sunlight or privacy of 
adjoining properties. They will generally 
only be considered on existing hard 
paved areas.

Approval will not generally be granted to 
a vergola/pergola that is built to the site 
boundary. 

Solar access

Garden/tool sheds and glass houses

Controls

C7. 

Development should not reduce solar 
access to adjoining dwellings, private 
open space or public open space.

Council may require an applicant to 
prepare shadow diagrams showing the 
impact of a proposal. Such diagrams 
should be based on a survey of the 
relevant site and adjoining development.

Controls

C10.    Where the erection of a garden/tool 
shed or glass house is proposed it 
will be considered to be gross floor 
area. Structures of this type will not be 
permitted within building setbacks.

If the garden/tool shed or glass house 
is visible from a public vantage point 
then the proposed structure should be 
sympathetic to the approved architectural 
theme and integrity of the development.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-85 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
Car parking spaces

Controls

C11.   

The reallocation or alteration of parking 
spaces may be permitted provided that 
it complies with Council’s car parking 
requirements.

The erection of carports over external 
parking spaces may be permitted where 
the architectural design is maintained.

The purchasing, leasing or allocation for 
exclusive use of car parking spaces which 
are not allocated to any particular dwelling 
or purpose in the approved scheme may 
be permitted subject to:

a)   The parking space must be in the 

same strata plan as the dwelling 
it is proposed to be allocated to or 
a different strata plan in the same 
community title.

b)   If external to the building the parking 

space is not to be enclosed or altered 
in any way.

c)   The use of such additional spaces is 

limited to parking or storage of private 
vehicles only (including boats on 
trailers).

Materials and finishes

Controls

C12.   

The proposed alterations and additions 
should match as far as possible the 
existing building in its use of materials 
and finishes. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-86 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY E1.3  Materials, colour schemes 

Roof finish

Controls

C3. 

Balconies

Controls

C4. 

Terracotta coloured (orange/red) roof tiles 
should be utilised in streets where this is 
the predominant roof colour.

First floor balcony balustrades facing the 
street should use a different material to 
the main wall finish.

Colour schemes

Controls

C5. 

C6. 

C7. 

General

Controls

C8. 

Subject to the Streetscape Character 
Analysis, no large expansive surface 
of predominantly white, light or primary 
colours which would dominate the 
streetscape or other vista should be used.

New development should incorporate 
colour schemes that have a hue and tonal 
relationship with the predominant colour 
schemes found in the street.

Matching buildings in a row should be 
finished in the same colour, or have a 
tonal relationship. 

All materials and finishes utilised should 
have low reflectivity.

and details

Objectives

O1.  To ensure that the choice of external materials, 

colour schemes and building details on new 
development and existing houses visible from 
a public place, reinforces and enhances any 
identifiable visual cohesiveness or special 
qualities evident in the street and the adjoining 
locality.

O2.  To encourage complementary and sympathetic 

wall treatments on new development and existing 
houses that are consistent with the architectural 
style of existing dwellings found in the street and 
the adjoining locality.

O3.  To encourage roof forms and materials consistent 
with the positive qualities evident in the street and 
the adjoining locality.

O4.  To encourage verandahs/balconies etc. that are 
consistent with original structures evident in the 
street and the adjoining locality.

O5.  To permit flexibility in the choice of materials 
to meet the practical requirements of energy 
efficiency, construction and maintenance costs.

Controls

The colour and surface finish of external building 
materials should minimise the overall visual impact 
of new development and be sympathetic to the 
surrounding locality as identified in the relevant 
Character statement and the Streetscape Character 
Analysis submitted with the application. 

Walls/ masonry

Controls

C1. 

Use darker face brick in streetscapes 
which predominantly exhibit this external 
finish.

C2. 

Retain or incorporate existing sandstone 
fences, walls or wall bases into the design 
of the building.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-87 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E2   Environmental criteria and residential amenity

E2.1  Topography

Objectives

O1.  To ensure that the natural topography and 
landform is maintained and the amount of 
excavation is minimised.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

Natural ground level should be maintained 
within 900mm of a side and rear 
boundary.

Cut and fill should not alter natural or 
existing ground levels by more than 
600mm.

Habitable rooms (not including bathrooms, 
laundries and storerooms) are to be 
located above existing ground level.

Rock outcrops, overhangs, boulders, 
sandstone platforms or sandstone 
retaining walls are not to be removed or 
covered.

Soil depth around buildings should be 
capable of sustaining trees as well as 
shrubs and smaller scale gardens.

E2.2  Harbour foreshore 

development and foreshore 
access

Objectives

O1.  To recognise, protect and enhance the natural, 

scenic, environmental, cultural and heritage 
qualities of the foreshore of the City of Canada 
Bay.

O2.  To ensure the Parramatta River foreshore is 

developed and promoted as a community asset 
in public ownership or with unrestricted public 
access.

O3.  Sydney Harbour is to be recognised as a public 

resource, owned by the public, to be protected for 
the public good:

•  The public good has precedence over the 

private good whenever and whatever change is 
proposed for Sydney Harbour and its foreshores.

•  Protection of the natural assets of Sydney 

Harbour has precedence over all other interests.

•  The public good includes but is not restricted to 
the existing views, vistas and amenity available 
from the public and private domain.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

Building forms should follow the natural 
topography and maintain and enhance 
vegetation cover as viewed from the 
Parramatta River. For example, buildings 
are not to be cantilevered.

Roof lines should be below the tree 
canopy backdrop to maintain the 
importance of any treeline.

Buildings should be designed and 
constructed to present a recessive 
appearance when viewed from the 
Parramatta River through the use of 
materials, colours, wall articulation, 
building form and landscaping. Glass 
elevations and excessive use of 
windows resulting in reflectivity and glare 
will not be permitted.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-88 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

C7. 

C8. 

C9. 

Pergolas, boatsheds and other 
structures are to be designed and 
constructed to complement the overall 
appearance of the development. Such 
structures are to be no more than one 
storey in height.

Swimming pools and spa pools 
constructed within the foreshore setback 
are to have no more than 300mm of the 
pool wall visible above existing ground 
level.

Swimming pool and spa pool walls are 
to be suitably treated to complement 
the natural foreshore and where visible, 
are to be sandstone and to incorporate 
suitable screen landscaping.

Boundary fences are not permitted 
within 8.0 metres of the mean high water 
mark.

Retaining walls are to have a maximum 
height of 500mm.

Hard surfaces and artificial surfaces, 
such as paving, within the Foreshore 
Building Line Area must be limited to 
swimming pool surrounds or modest 
walkways between the residential 
building and foreshore structures such 
as swimming pools or boat ramps.

C10.   

Mature trees or significant landscaping 
are not to be removed to locate 
foreshore structures.

C11.   

Any development on the foreshore 
should:

a)   Enhance the existing flora of the 

allotment;

b)   Where appropriate, include native 
trees which will be 12 metres or 
greater at maturity; and

c)   Avoid introduced species known to 

C17.   

seed freely or spread easily.

Protection of the natural foreshore 

Controls

C12.   

Development on foreshore properties 
must not significantly alter the topography 
and must preserve natural foreshore 
features including cliffs, rock outcrops, 
rock shelfs and beaches.

C13.   

Seawalls or retaining walls are not 
permitted in areas where the foreshore is 
in its natural state.

C14.    Where seawalls or retaining walls are 
permitted, they must be constructed of 
coarse, rock-faced stone or with stone 
facing (preferably sandstone) and not 
protrude more than 1.0m above the mean 
high water mark.

C15.   

Slipways and stairs are to be designed 
and constructed to closely conform with 
the character of the natural foreshore.

Foreshore access

Please refer to the Canada Bay LEP for considerations 
in relation to the provision of foreshore access.

Controls

C16.   

Public access along the foreshore should 
be provided by means of (as a minimum) 
a 3 metre strip of land between mean 
high water mark and the development. 
The access may be secured by means 
of a registered covenant, agreement or 
instrument in favour of the Council (as 
provided for in the Conveyancing Act 
1919) that burdens the relevant land, 
or by means of an obligation contained 
in a planning agreement that is entered 
into between the relevant landowner, the 
Council, or both.

Public access to the foreshore over 
public land is not to be obstructed by the 
location of foreshore structures.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-89 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
d)   To be assessed as being in sunlight, the sun should 
strike a vertical surface at a horizontal angle of 22.5o 
or more. (This is because sunlight at extremely 
oblique angles has little effect.) For a window, door 
or glass wall to be assessed as being in sunlight, 
half of its area should be in sunlight. For private 
open space to be assessed as being in sunlight, 
either half its area or a useable strip adjoining the 
living area should be in sunlight, depending on the 
size of the space. The amount of sunlight on private 
open space should be measured at ground level;

e)   Overshadowing by fences, roof overhangs and 

changes in level should be taken into consideration; 
and

f)   The impact on what is likely to be built on adjoining 
sites should be considered as well as the existing 
development.

E2.3  Solar access

Objectives

O1.  To maximise solar access to living areas and 

private open space in order to improve residential 
amenity.

O2.  To minimise the amount of overshadowing of 

neighbouring developments and outdoor spaces 
to maintain their amenity.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

New buildings and additions are sited and 
designed to maximise direct sunlight to 
north-facing living areas and all private 
open space areas.

Direct sunlight to north facing windows 
of habitable rooms and all private open 
space areas of adjacent dwellings should 
not be reduced to less than 3 hours 
between 9.00am and 3.00pm on 21 June.

Note: The numerical guidelines will be applied with the 
following principles in mind, where relevant: 

a)   The ease with which sunlight access can be 

protected is inversely proportional to the density of 
development. At low densities, there is a reasonable 
expectation that a dwelling and some of its open 
space will retain its existing sunlight. (However, 
even at low densities there are sites and buildings 
that are highly vulnerable to being overshadowed.) 
At higher densities sunlight is harder to protect and 
the claim to retain it is not as strong;

b)   The amount of sunlight lost should be taken into 

account, as well as the amount of sunlight retained;

c)   Overshadowing arising out of poor design is not 

acceptable, even if it satisfies numerical guidelines. 
The poor quality of a proposal’s design may be 
demonstrated by an alternative design that achieves 
the same amenity without substantial additional 
cost, while reducing the impact on neighbours;

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-90 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
E2.4  Visual and acoustic privacy

Objectives

O1.  Ensure the siting and design of a building 

provides a high level of visual and acoustic 
privacy for residents and neighbours in dwellings 
and private open space.

O2.  To provide personal and property security for 

residents and visitors.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

Openable first floor windows should be 
located so as to face the front or rear 
of the building. Where it is impractical 
to locate windows other than facing an 
adjoining building, the windows should be 
off-set to avoid a direct view of windows 
in adjacent buildings.

Balconies should be located so as to 
face the front or rear of the building. 
No balconies are permitted on side 
elevations.

Provide a minimum sill height of 1.5 
metres from finished floor level to 
windows on a side elevation which serves 
habitable rooms and has a direct outlook 
to windows or principal private open 
space (not being front yard) of adjacent 
dwellings or alternatively use fixed 
obscure glass.

Upper level balconies to the rear of a 
building should be set back a minimum 
of 2.0 metres from any side boundary 
and should have a maximum depth of 1.8 
metres.

Upper level balconies that face side or 
rear boundaries will not be permitted 
when the upper level setback is less than 
6.0 metres.

Provide suitable screen planting on a rear 
boundary that will achieve a minimum 
mature height of 6.0 metres where the 
rear upper floors are proposed to be less 
than 7.0 metres off a rear boundary.

C7. 

C8. 

Ground floor decks, terraces or patios 
should not be greater than 500mm above 
natural ground level. If expansive terraces 
are sought on sloping ground, they should 
be designed to step down in relation to 
the topography of the site.

  Where the visual privacy of adjacent 
properties is likely to be significantly 
affected from windows, doors and 
balconies, or where external driveways 
and/or parking spaces are located close 
to bedrooms of adjoining buildings, one or 
more of the following alternatives are to 
be applied:

a)   Fixed screens of a reasonable density 
(minimum 85% block out) should 
be provided in a position suitable to 
alleviate loss of privacy;

b)   Where there is an alternative source 
of natural ventilation, windows are to 
be provided with translucent glazing 
and fixed permanently closed;

c)   Windows are off-set or splayed to 

reduce privacy effects;

d)   An alternative design solution is 

adopted which results in the reduction 
of privacy effects; and

e)   Suitable screen planting or planter 
boxes are to be provided in an 
appropriate position to reduce the loss 
of privacy of adjoining premises.

Note: This option will only be 
acceptable where it can be 
demonstrated that the longevity of the 
screen planting has been provided for 
eg. Automatic watering systems.

The introduction of acoustic measures 
to reduce traffic/aircraft noise should not 
detract from the streetscape value of 
individual buildings. 

Habitable rooms for detached dual 
occupancy development are to have a 
minimum separation of nine (9) metres. 

Habitable rooms for multi-dwelling 
development are to have a minimum 
separation of nine (9) metres.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-91 

C9. 

C10.   

C11.   

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use of rooftops of buildings and garages

Controls

C12.   

No trafficable outdoor spaces are 
permitted on the uppermost rooftop of a 
building or on garage roofs, such as roof 
decks, terraces, patio, gardens and the 
like, however;

Outdoor roof space may be considered for 
buildings on steeply sloping sites where 
this is the dominant characteristic in the 
immediate vicinity as demonstrated by the 
Streetscape Character Analysis and there 
are no noise, privacy or amenity issues.

Refer to figures E2.1 to E2.4

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-92 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY Figure E2.1 -  Illustrated examples of appropriate measures to protect privacy - Orientation for private outlook

Illustration 5.18 Illustrated examples of appropriate measures to
protect privacy - Orientation for private outlook

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Figure E2.2 -  Illustrated examples of appropriate measures to protect privacy - Splay windows

Illustration 5.19 Illustrated examples of appropriate measures to
protect privacy - Splay windows

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-93 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY Figure E2.3 -  Illustrated examples of appropriate measures to protect privacy - Offset windows

Illustration 5.20 Illustrated examples of appropriate measures to
protect privacy - Offset windows

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Figure E2.4 -  Illustrated examples of appropriate measures to protect privacy - Separation between rooms

Illustration 5.21 Illustrated examples of appropriate measures to

protect privacy - Separation between rooms

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-94 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY E2.5  Access to views

Objectives

O1.  To protect and enhance opportunities for vistas 
and public views from streets and public places.

O2.  To ensure views to and from the site are 
considered at the site analysis stage.

O3.  To recognise the value of views from private 

dwellings and encourage view sharing based on 
the following four controls.

O4.  To recognise the value of view sharing whilst not 
restricting the reasonable development potential 
of the site.

To determine whether a development is satisfactory in 
relation to the Objectives pertaining to access to views, 
the following controls will be applied:

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

Development should seek to protect water 
views, iconic views and whole views.

Water views are valued more highly 
than land views. Iconic views (eg of the 
Harbour Bridge or the City skyline) are 
valued more highly than views without 
icons. Whole views are valued more 
highly than partial views (eg a water view 
in which the interface between the land 
and water is visible is more valuable than 
one in which it is obscured).

An icon should be a prominent identifying 
feature of the landscape and should be 
commonly held by the wider community 
as having iconic status.

Development should seek to protect views 
from the front and rear of buildings and 
where views are obtained from a standing 
position.

The expectation to retain side views and 
sitting views is often unrealistic.

C3. 

Development should seek to protect views 
from living areas and minimise the extent 
of impact.

C4. 

The impact on views from living areas is 
more significant than from bedrooms or 
service areas (though views from kitchens 
are highly valued because people spend 
so much time in them). The impact may 
be assessed quantitatively, but in many 
cases this can be meaningless. For 
example, it is unhelpful to say that the 
view loss is 20% if it includes the Harbour 
Bridge. Council will attempt to assess the 
view loss qualitatively as negligible, minor, 
moderate, severe or devastating.

Development in view affected areas 
should not only be designed to meet 
relevant development controls but also be 
designed to achieve view sharing. 

A development that complies with all 
planning controls is more reasonable 
than one that breaches them. Where 
an impact on views arises as a result 
of non-compliance with one or more 
planning controls, even a moderate 
impact is unreasonable. A complying 
proposal of a more skillful design could 
provide the applicant with the same 
development potential and amenity 
and reduce the impact on the views of 
neighbours.

Note: In some cases, Council will insist on the erection 
of height poles/building templates to indicate the height 
of the proposed development together with written and/
or photographic montages to ensure that view losses 
are minimal. Template construction is to be to the 
satisfaction of Council officers and is to be certified by a 
registered surveyor upon erection. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-95 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
E2.6  Safety and security 

Objectives

O1.  To facilitate a safe physical environment by 
promoting crime prevention through design.

O2.  To facilitate the security of residents and visitors 

and their property and enhance community safety 
and well-being.

O3.  To ensure a development relates well with the 
public domain and contributes to an active 
pedestrian-orientated environment.

O4.  Effective use of fencing or other means to 

delineate private and public areas.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

C7. 

C8. 

Ensure lighting is provided to all 
pedestrian paths, shared areas, parking 
areas and building entries for multi unit 
development.

High walls which obstruct surveillance are 
not permitted.

The front door of a dwelling house should 
be visible from the street.

Buildings adjacent to public streets or 
public spaces should be designed so 
residents can observe the area and 
carry out visual surveillance. At least one 
window of a habitable room should face 
the street or public space.

A Council approved street number 
must be displayed at the front of new 
development or the front fence of such 
development.

Roller shutters are not permitted on 
window and door openings that have 
frontage to the street or are adjacent to 
public open space.

Fences higher than 900mm should be of 
an open semi-transparent design.

Balconies and windows should be 
positioned to allow observation of 
entrances.

C9. 

C10.   

C11.   

C12.   

C13.   

Proposed planting must not obstruct 
the building entrance from the street or 
sightlines between the building and the 
street frontage.

Blank walls facing a rear laneway should 
be avoided as they attract graffiti.

Pedestrian and vehicular entrances must 
be designed so as to not be obstructed by 
existing or proposed plantings.

If seating is provided in communal areas 
of a development it should generally only 
be located in areas of active use where it 
will be regularly used.

Development on properties which 
adjoin a rear laneway must provide at 
least one habitable room window in the 
rear elevation capable of overlooking 
the laneway. If appropriate to the site 
context and neighbouring property 
privacy considerations, a balcony on the 
rear elevation would be an appropriate 
alternative.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-96 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E3   General Controls

E3.1  Subdivision and allotment 

size

Controls

C1. 

Subdivision is the division of land into two or more parts 
for separate occupation, use or disposition.

Objectives

O1.  To minimise any likely impact of subdivision 

and future development on the amenity of 
neighbouring properties.

O2.  To ensure lot size and dimension are able to 

accommodate a dwelling and provide adequate 
open space and car parking consistent with the 
relevant requirements of this DCP.

O3.  To ensure lot size and dimension take into 
account the slope of the land and existing 
vegetation identified in the site analysis.

O4.  To ensure lot size and dimensions enable 

dwellings or future dwellings to be sited to protect 
natural or cultural features including heritage 
items and retain special features such as trees 
and views.

Where relevant, Torrens Title subdivision standards are 
contained on the Lot Size Map to the Canada Bay Local 
Environment Plan.

The minimum frontage to the street for 
normal allotments is:

Allotment type

Minimum frontage to street

Normal allotment

14.0m

Hatchet–shaped 
allotment

  4.0m

Controls

C2. 

  Where the subdivision of an allotment is 

creating:

a)   A single battle-axe allotment, the 

minimum width of an access handle is 
4.0 metres; or

b)   Two or more battle-axe allotments, the 
minimum width of an access handle is 
4.0 metres plus a passing bay at 30 
metre intervals.

In each case, a 0.5 metre wide landscape strip is to be 
provided on the outer edge of the access handle.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-97 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
E3.2  Frontage

Objective

E3.4  Density

Objective

O1.  To ensure lot dimensions are able to 

O1.  Provide a low to medium density residential 

accommodate residential development and 
provide adequate open space and car parking 
consistent with the relevant requirements of this 
DCP.

Controls

C1. 

The following minimum frontage 
requirements should be achieved:

Dwelling Type

Attached Dual Occupancy

Detached Dual Occupancy

Multi–Dwelling Housing & Residential 
Flat Buildings

Frontage

14.0m

16.0m

20.0m

E3.3  Site coverage

Objectives

O1.  To ensure that new development and alterations 
and additions to existing development result in a 
site coverage that is consistent with the existing 
character of adjoining dwellings and those found 
in the wider locality.

O2.  To ensure that new development and alterations 

and additions to existing development result in 
site coverage which allows adequate provision to 
be made on site for infiltration of stormwater, deep 
soil tree planting, landscaping, footpaths, driveway 
areas and areas for outdoor recreation.

O3.  To minimise impacts in relation to overshadowing, 

privacy and view loss.

Controls

C1. 

The following site coverage provisions 
should not be exceeded:

Dwelling type

Maximum site coverage

Multi-Dwelling Housing 
& Residential Flat 
Buildings

Precinct 1 – 40% 
Precinct 2 – 40% 
Precinct 3 – 30%

environment which will accommodate a variety of 
building forms.

Controls

C1. 

The following density provisions should 
not be exceeded:

Dwelling Type

Site Area Per Dwelling

Multi-Dwelling 
Housing & Residential 
Flat Buildings

Precinct 1

Small – 185m2 
Medium – 210m2 
Large – 230m2

Precinct 2

Small – 100m2 
Medium – 140m2 
Large – 185m2

Precinct 3

Small – 100m2 
Medium – 140m2 
Large – 185m2

Refer to figures E3.1 to E3.6 for location        
of Precincts.

Definitions for small, medium and large dwellings      
are contained within the Definitions Section of Part J   
of this DCP.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-98 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
u
a
.
v
o
g
.
w
s
n
.
y
a
b
a
d
a
n
a
c
.
w
w
w
|
6
0
0
2
©

p
a
M

t
c
n
i
c
e
r
P

.

2
1
6
n
o

i
t
a
r
t
s
u

l
l
I

p
a
m

i

t
c
n
c
e
r
P

1
.
3
E
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-99 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
u
a
.
v
o
g
.
w
s
n
.
y
a
b
a
d
a
n
a
c
.
w
w
w
|
6
0
0
2
©

p
a
M

t
c
n
i
c
e
r
P

.

3
1
6
n
o

i
t
a
r
t
s
u

l
l
I

p
a
m

i

t
c
n
c
e
r
P

2
.
3
E
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-100 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
p
a
m

i

t
c
n
c
e
r
P

3
.
3
E
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-101 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
u
a
.
v
o
g
.
w
s
n
.
y
a
b
a
d
a
n
a
c
.
w
w
w
|
6
0
0
2
©

p
a
M

t
c
n
i
c
e
r
P

.

5
1
6
n
o

i
t
a
r
t
s
u

l
l
I

p
a
m

i

t
c
n
c
e
r
P

4
.
3
E
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-102 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
u
a
.
v
o
g
.
w
s
n
.
y
a
b
a
d
a
n
a
c
.
w
w
w
|
6
0
0
2
©

p
a
M

t
c
n
i
c
e
r
P

.

6
1
6
n
o

i
t
a
r
t
s
u

l
l
I

p
a
m

i

t
c
n
c
e
r
P

5
.
3
E
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-103 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
u
a
.
v
o
g
.
w
s
n
.
y
a
b
a
d
a
n
a
c
.
w
w
w
|
6
0
0
2
©

p
a
M

t
c
n
i
c
e
r
P

.

7
1
6
n
o

i
t
a
r
t
s
u

l
l
I

p
a
m

i

t
c
n
c
e
r
P

6
.
3
E
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-104 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
E3.5  Building setbacks

Front setbacks

Setbacks define the overall footprint of a building and 
the outer extremities of that building in relation to the 
front, side and rear boundaries.

Controls

C1. 

Appropriate street setback controls can contribute to the 
public domain by enhancing the streetscape character 
and the continuity of street facades. Street setbacks 
also enhance the setting of a building. Canada Bay 
Council places particular emphasis on continuing the 
building alignment in uniform streetscapes.

Rear setbacks provide space for planting, including 
trees, which will achieve a reasonable height and 
canopy and provide for adequate open space for the 
amenity of residents. Rear setbacks also promote 
privacy between residents of adjoining properties, 
particularly where development is greater than single 
storey. 

Objectives

O1.  To integrate new development with the established 

setback character of the street.

O2.  Preserve significant vegetation which contributes 
to the public domain and allows for street 
landscape character to be enhanced.

O3.  Ensure adequate separation between buildings 

consistent with the established character and 
rhythm of built elements in the street.

C2. 

O4.  To ensure adequate separation between buildings 

for visual and acoustic privacy.

O5.  Maximise solar access to achieve amenity for 

neighbours.

The front setback of all residential 
buildings is to be a minimum of 4.5 
metres or no less than the Prevailing 
Street Setback, whichever is the greater.

The “Prevailing Street Setback” is the 
setback calculated by averaging the 
setback of five (5) adjoining residential 
properties on both sides of the 
development.

Where there are fewer than five 
residential properties or a non-residential 
use property between a street end or 
corner and the development site, the 
“Prevailing Street Setback” is the setback 
calculated by averaging the setback of 
the five next residential properties fronting 
the street (if any) on both sides of the 
property.

Note: In many instances, the front setback 
of buildings in Canada Bay is 7.5 metres 
or greater and development in these 
areas will be required to comply with this 
prevailing setback.

No balconies, entry porches or verandahs 
are permitted to encroach within the 
front setback. The only encroachments 
permitted within the front setback are 
restricted to eaves and awnings for 
weather protection but no supporting 
columns or posts.

C3. 

  Where detached dual occupancy 

development is on a corner lot, the 
design should acknowledge the prevailing 
setback on both streets.

Refer to figures E3.7 to E3.10

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-105 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
5 adjoining properties

5 adjoining properties

Site

Street

Figure E3.7   Calculation of the prevailing street setback

Prevailing street setback

Illustration 5.23 Calculation of the prevailing street setback
integrated

solutions.com.au

design

www.

2009 |

©

e
g
a
t
n
o
r
f

t
e
e
r
t
s

e
d
S

i

Site

Main street frontage

5 adjoining properties

Prevailing street setback

Figure E3.8   Calculation of the prevailing street setback on a corner development site

Illustration 5.24 Calculation of the prevailing street setback on a

corner development site
©

integrated

design

www.

2009 |

solutions.com.au

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-106 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY Site

Street

5 adjoining properties

5 adjoining properties

Figure E3.9   Prevailing street setback near corner sites

Prevailing street setback

Illustration 5.25 Prevailing street setback near corner sites

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Site

Street

5 adjoining properties

5 adjoining properties

Figure E3.10  Prevailing street setback near corner sites

Prevailing street setback

Illustration 5.26 Prevailing street setback near corner sites

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-107 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY Side setbacks

Rear setbacks

Controls

C4. 

C5. 

Any wall facing a boundary which 
contains a window should be set back a 
minimum of 900mm.

Dwelling Houses, Dual Occupancies, 
Multi-Dwelling Housing and Residential 
Flat Buildings are to comply with the 
following numerical requirements:

Controls

C6. 

All new developments, including Dwelling 
Houses, Dual Occupancies, Multi-
Dwelling Housing and Residential Flat 
Buildings, are to have a minimum rear 
setback of 6.0 metres.

Basement setbacks

Development

Dwelling houses 
and attached dual 
occupancies

Detached Dual 
Occupancies

Multi-Dwelling 
Housing & 
Residential Flat 
Buildings

Minimum distance from 
side boundary
•  Single storey dwellings and 

attached dual occupancies are 
to be set back a minimum of 
900mm from side boundaries.

•  The second storey of all 

dwellings and attached dual 
occupancies is to be set back 
a minimum of 1500mm from 
side boundaries.

•  This may be achieved by 
integrating any proposed 
upper floor within the roof 
form or by setting back both 
the ground and first floors a 
minimum of 1500mm from the 
side boundaries.

•  Front Dwelling – all walls 

should be set back a minimum 
of 900mm for single storey 
buildings and 1500mm for the 
2nd storey component of two 
storey buildings.

•  Rear Dwellings – all walls 

should be set back a minimum 
of 1.5 metres.

•  All building walls are to be set 
back a minimum of 5.0 metres 
from side boundaries.

Controls

C7. 

C8. 

C9. 

Basement excavation for all development 
is limited to the area of the building at 
ground level. The excavation setback 
includes the driveway access to the 
basement.

The outer edge of excavation, piling and 
all subsurface walls including driveway 
excavation to basement car parking for 
dwelling houses should not be less than 
900mm from any boundary.

  Where it can be demonstrated the site is 
so constrained (for example by its width) 
that it is impossible to provide basements 
without extending beyond the permitted 
side and rear setbacks, excavation up to 
but no closer than 3.0 metres to a site 
boundary will be considered.

Internal setbacks

Controls

C10.   

If two or more rows of dwellings are 
proposed in Multi-Dwelling Housing or 
Residential Flat Buildings, an internal 
setback of 12.0 metres is required 
between rows.

Outbuildings

Controls

C11.   

Outbuildings are to be located behind the 
main building alignment and should have 
a minimum setback of 900mm to side and 
rear boundaries.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-108 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
However, reduced side and rear boundary setbacks 
may be considered on merit where:

a)   they are consistent with the setbacks of outbuildings 

in the vicinity;

b)   they require no maintenance (including roof gutters); 

c)   there are no adverse impacts to the amenity of the 

adjoining properties; and

Controls

C1. 

d)   the total area of all outbuildings does not exceed 

C2. 

35m2.

Advisory Notes

Notwithstanding compliance with the above numerical 
controls, Council may require building setbacks to be 
increased if necessary to reduce bulk, overshadowing, 
visual impact, view loss, privacy concerns and to retain 
existing trees on site.

Any Foreshore Building Line will continue to apply and 
overrides any setback provisions in this plan.

E3.6  Height of buildings 

Height is an important control because it has a major 
impact on the physical and visual amenity of a place. 
Building height is also critical in addressing impacts 
from development such as solar access, privacy and 
view loss.

Objectives

O1.  To ensure that buildings are compatible with the 

height, bulk and scale of the existing and desired 
future character of the locality.

O2.  To minimise visual impact, disruption of views, 
loss of privacy and loss of sunshine to existing 
residential development.

O3.  To minimise the adverse impact on Conservation 
Areas, Heritage Items and contributory buildings.

O4.  To reduce the visual impact of development when 
viewed from the Parramatta River as well as other 
public places such as parks, roads and community 
facilities.

Dwellings and attached dual occupancies 
are not to exceed the building height 
plane projected at an angle of 45 degrees 
over the site from a vertical distance of 
5.0 metres above ground level at any 
boundary of the site.

The Building Height Map to the Canada 
Bay Local Environmental Plan includes 
a maximum 8.5 metre building height 
for dwelling houses and attached dual 
occupancies.

C3. 

The following maximum building heights 
should not be exceeded:

Dwelling type
Dwelling houses 
and attached dual 
occupancies

Detached Dual 
Occupancy

Multi-Dwelling 
Housing & 
Residential Flat 
Building

Outbuildings

Maximum storeys
Dwelling houses and attached 
Dual Occupancies are to have 
a maximum height of two (2) 
storeys.

Two (2) storey (front dwelling)

One (1) storey (rear dwelling)

(On a corner site the dwelling 
facing the primary street 
frontage is considered the front 
dwelling).

Precinct 1 –  Two (2) storey

Precinct 2 – Two (2) storey

Precinct 3 – Three (3) storey

The storey limit for an 
outbuilding is single storey.

Reference should be made to the Building Height Maps 
which accompany the Canada Bay Local Environmental 
Plan. 

Controls

C4. 

The rear dwelling of a detached dual 
occupancy must have a ground floor 
ceiling no higher than 3.6 metres when 
measured vertically at any point above 
existing ground level.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-109 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
Attic rooms

Controls

C5. 

The use of an attic room within the roof 
space of a dwelling house or outbuilding 
is permitted for habitable purposes, 
provided that:

•  no external balconies are proposed for 

the attic room;

•  the attic room does not increase the 

bulk of the building;

•  it does not compromise the privacy of 

adjacent properties.

Refer to Figures E3.11 to E3.15

450

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

C

B

A

Ground level

KEY

A

B

C

5m building height plane

7.2m maximum ceiling height

8.5m maximum building height

450

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

450

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

A

450

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

B

C

B

A

Ground level

C

A

Figure E3.11   Height plane envelope on a level site

Illustration 5.27 Height plane envelope on a level site

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-110 

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
450

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

C

B

A

Ground level

KEY

A

B

C

5m building height plane

7.2m maximum ceiling height

8.5m maximum building height

C

B

A

Ground level

450

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

450

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

A

450

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

C

B

A

Figure E3.12  Height plane envelope on a sloping site

Illustration 5.28 Height plane envelope on a sloping site

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-111 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY Maximum height line

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

A

B

A

Natural ground level

2 storeys maximum

8.5m maximum building height

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

KEY

A

B

B

Figure E3.13  Maximum building height and maximum number of storeys on a level site

Illustration 5.29 Maximum building height and maximum number

of storeys on a level site
©

integrated

design

www.

2009 |

solutions.com.au

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-112 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY Maximum height line

A

Natural ground level

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Highest point of natural ground
level occupied by building

A

B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

2 storeys maximum

8.5m maximum building height

KEY

A

B

B

Figure E3.14  Maximum building height and maximum number of storeys on a sloping site

Illustration 5.30 Maximum building height and maximum number

of storeys on a sloping site
integrated
©

design

www.

2009 |

solutions.com.au

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-113 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY Maximum height line

Natural ground level

A

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Highest point of natural ground
level occupied by building

B

A

Building will need to step down steeply sloping
site with a maximum height of 2 levels to comply
with maximum height control

B

A

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

2 storeys maximum

8.5m maximum building height

KEY

A

B

Cut

A

Figure E3.15  Maximum building height and maximum number of storeys on a steep site

Illustration 5.31 Maximum building height and maximum number

of storeys on a steep site
integrated
©

design

www.

2009 |

solutions.com.au

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-114 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY E3.7  Private open space

E3.8  Landscaping

Objectives

Objectives

O1.  To ensure private open space provides each 

O1.  To enhance the existing streetscape.

dwelling with a space for outdoor activities and 
functions as an extension of the living area.

O2.  To enhance the built environment by providing 

O2.  To enhance the quality & amenity of the built form.

O3.  To provide privacy and shade.

open space for landscaping. 

O4.  To minimise the extent of hard paved areas and 

Controls

C1. 

The provision of private open space 
for residential development is to be in 
accordance with the following table:

Type of 
Development
Dwellings & 
Attached dual 
occupancy

Detached dual 
occupancies

Multi-Dwelling 
Housing & 
Residential Flat 
Buildings

Minimum Private Open 
Space Provisions
40m2 per dwelling with a 
minimum dimension of 5m x 5m

40m2 per dwelling with a 
minimum dimension of 5m x 5m

•  40m2 per dwelling at ground 

level with a minimum 
dimension of 5m x 5m

•  10m2 per dwelling above 
ground, with a minimum 
dimension of 1.5m provided 
as a balcony; and

•  all balconies should be 
recessed unless special 
circumstances, as determined 
by Council, are considered to 
exist

Controls

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

A development should locate the private 
open space behind the front building line.

At least one portion of the private open 
space with a minimum area of 40m2 
should be adjacent to and visible from the 
main living and/or dining rooms and be 
accessible from those areas.

Development should take advantage 
of opportunities to provide north 
facing private open space to achieve 
comfortable year round use.

facilitate rainwater infiltration.

O5.  To preserve and enhance native wildlife 

populations and habitat through appropriate 
planting of indigenous vegetation.

Controls

C1. 

Landscape areas need to be consistent 
with the definition in Part J of the DCP.

Note: Synthetic turf, permeable paving 
and gravel do not form part of landscaped 
area calculation.

C2. 

Landscaped area for dwelling houses 
and dual occupancies is to be provided in 
accordance with the following tables:

Landscaped area for dwelling houses and 
attached dual occupancies

Landscape 
area as 
percentage 
of site area 
for two storey 
dwellings
35%

Landscape 
area as 
percentage of 
site area for 
single storey 
dwellings
25% 

37%

27% 

39%

29% 

41%

31% 

43%

33% 

Site area

Less than 
450m2

450m2 or more 
but less than 
550m2

550m2 or more 
but less than 
650m2

650m2 or more 
but less than 
750m2

750m2 or more 
but less than 
850m2

850m2 or more

45%

35% 

Note: Attached dual occupancies are not permitted on 
lots under 450m2.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-115 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
Landscaped Area for detached dual 
occupancies

Controls

Minimum landscaped area as a percentage 
of site area

Detached Dual Occupancies

35%

Controls

C3. 

Landscaped open space for multi-dwelling 
development and residential flat buildings 
may comprise both communal and private 
open space and is to be provided in 
accordance with the following table.

Landscaped area for dwellings in multi-
dwelling housing and residential flat buildings

Development 
type

Dwelling 
size

Precinct 1

Precinct 2

Precinct 3

Small 
Medium 
Large

Small 
Medium 
Large

Small 
Medium 
Large

Minimum 
landscaped area 
per dwelling
90m2 
110m2 
120m2

55m2 
75m2 
90m2

70m2 
90m2 
110m2

C4. 

  The following minimum number of canopy 
trees capable of achieving a minimum 
mature height of 8.0 metres are to 
be accommodated on site for all new 
development:

a)   Sites less than 400m2                1 tree

b)   Sites between 400 – 800m2              2 trees

c)   Sites over 800m2 

              4 trees

Trees should comprise native vegetation 
indigenous to Canada Bay and should 
be chosen from Council’s list of suitable 
species (refer to Section C5.3).

C5. 

  Existing trees are to be retained and 

integrated into a new landscaping scheme, 
wherever possible. Suitable replacement 
trees should be provided.

C6. 

  Minimum soil depth for balcony gardens is 

800mm.

C7. 

  The majority of the front building setback 

and private courtyard areas of all 
development should comprise landscaping 
in accordance with the definition in this 
DCP.

C8. 

  A significant landscaped setting is to be 

established for pathways and paved areas.

C9. 

  Pathways and driveways are to be located 
a minimum of 1.0 metres from common 
boundaries.

C10.    Any development on the foreshore should:

a)   Enhance the existing flora of the 

allotment;

b)   Plant native trees with a mature height 

greater than 12.0 metres;

c)   Avoid introduced species known to seed 
freely or spread easily by rhizomes or 
vegetative means.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-116 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
E3.9  Parking and access

Controls

Objectives

O1.  To provide off street parking for residents.

O2.  Provide vehicular and pedestrian safety.

O3.  To encourage the location of carports and garages 

behind the building line where possible.

O4.  To ensure that car parking structures respect the 

character of the street.

O5.  To ensure carports and garages etc are designed 
to be in sympathy with existing dwellings without 
becoming the dominant feature on the site.

O6.  To limit the width of driveways depending on site 

frontage.

O7.  To limit the number of garage doors to the street.

O8.  To provide vehicle parking at the rear of properties 
and off laneways instead of along the street where 
feasible.

O9.  To encourage the location of carports and garages 

behind the building line where possible.

 Car spaces

Controls

C1. 

  Parking space should be a minimum of 
5.4m x 2.4m, with an additional 300mm 
either side where enclosed (i.e 5.4m x 
3.0m).

C2. 

  Garage dimensions should be as follows:

Garage size
Single Garage

Double Garage

Minimum internal dimension
5.5m x 3.0m and not less than 
2.6m between door jambs

5.5m x 5.4m and not less than 
5.2m between door jambs

C3. 

  For existing and new dwellings, a garage or 

carport in order of priority should be:

a)   Located at the rear of the site with 

access from a rear lane;

b)   Located at the rear of the site with 

access from the street frontage; and

c)   Located at the side of the dwelling 
house, behind the front building 
alignment.

C4. 

  Carports, garages and car parking areas 

are located and designed to:

a)   Conveniently and safely serve users;

b)   Enable efficient use of car spaces 

and access ways, including adequate 
manoeuvrability for vehicles between 
the site and the street;

c)   Not dominate or detract from the 

appearance of the existing dwelling or 
new development and the streetscape;

d)   Be compatible in scale, form, materials 

and finishes with the associated 
dwelling or development found on the 
site; and

e)   Retain any significant trees.

C5. 

C6. 

  Where the frontage of the site is 20.0 
metres wide or less, garages, parking 
structures and driveways should not occupy 
more than 40% of the frontage.

  Where the frontage is more than 20.0 
metres in width, the garages, parking 
structures and driveways should not exceed 
30% of the frontage.

C7. 

  No outdoor spaces are permitted on garage 
roofs, such as terraces, patio, gardens and 
the like.

Note: Reference should be made to Table C-B in Part 
C3 for the maximum number of parking permitted. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-117 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY Provide an uncovered paved area at the front (subject to streetscape
considerations. Consider impact of any new kerb crossing.

Street

Illustration 5.32 Location at the front consisting of an open paved

area

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Figure E3.16  Location of car parking at the front consisting of an open paved area 

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-118 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY Locate carport at the side of house, well setback from the front
building line. Consider impact of any new kerb crossing.

Illustration 5.33 Location at the side behind the front alignment

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Street

Figure E3.17  Location of car parking at the side behind the front alignment

Lane Way

Illustration 5.34 Location of car parking at the rear of the site
with access from a rear lane

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Street

Figure E3.18  Location of car parking at the rear of the site with access from a rear lane 

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-119 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY Hardstand

Controls

Garages

Controls

C8. 

  Where a garage/carport cannot be provided 

at the side or rear of a dwelling house 
or semi, a hardstand area forward of the 
building alignment which is integrated 
into the landscape character of the front 
yard may be considered by Council. 
The distance between the front property 
boundary and building is to be a minimum 
of 5.5m.

Carports

Controls

C9. 

  Council may consider a carport forward of 

the front building alignment where:

a)   It is a single carport with an external 
width of no more than 3.0 metres;

b)   The site is of a sufficient width that the 
carport will not obscure the existing 
building;

c)   The distance between the building 

and the front property boundary is a 
minimum of 5.5 metres;

d)   It is of a simple post design, with no 
side panel infill; is not elaborate in its 
decoration and colour and does not 
detract from the existing building;

e)   There is no solid panel lift or roller 

shutter door proposed; 

f)   Does not significantly affect the 

landscaped front garden;

g)   Is within a varied streetscape that 

currently has carports forward of the 
building alignment;

h)   The roof is either flat or of a pitch that 

relates to the existing house;

i)   The views of the house from the public 

domain will not be adversely affected; 
and

j)   There is no rear lane access or side 

access of 2.6 metres or more available.

k)   Where existing car parking is available, 
no new structures are permitted forward 
of the building line.

C10.    Garaging is to be provided to the rear of 
the site or on a secondary elevation if it 
is a corner site or behind the main street 
elevation of the dwelling (behind the 
primary building façade) in all instances.

C11.    Garage doors should be of timber or simple 

metal cladding.

C12.    Garage doors and gates are not to 

encroach over a public footpath during 
operation.

C13.    Garages for each dwelling within an 

attached dual occupancy should be single 
fronted only.

Refer to figures E3.16 to E3.19

New detached garages and carports to existing 
dwellings

Controls

C14.   

Locate detached garages and carports 
either at the rear of the site where rear 
access is available or between the side 
elevation and the side property boundary.

Note: Rear and side access is considered 
available where there is an existing side 
boundary setback of 2.6 metres or more or 
where there is rear lane or secondary street 
access

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-120 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY Locate off street parking at the rear with access from the
street. Consider impact of any new kerb crossing.

Illustration 5.35 Location of car parking at the rear of a site with

access from street frontage
integrated
©

design

www.

2009 |

solutions.com.au

Street

Figure E3.19  Location of car parking at the rear of the site with access from street frontage

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-121 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY Driveways

Controls

Access Aisles

Controls

C15.    All side driveways are to comprise a 0.5m 

C24.    A 4.0 metre wide access handle is to be 

wide landscape strip.

C16.    The first 4.5 metres of any driveway 

should be at grade. This will improve both 
appearance and pedestrian safety.

C17.    Entries to underground car parking are to 

be set back behind the building line.

C18.    The alignment of driveways should, where 

possible, create visual interest and avoid 
the creation of a “gun barrel” effect.

C19.    The number of vehicle crossings is limited 

to one (1) per site.

C20.    Vehicular entrances to parking areas should 

be visually inconspicuous, appropriately 
screened and ideally not be located along 
the front façade, but rather to the side or 
rear.

C21.    The surface and slope of driveways 

and parking areas facilitate stormwater 
infiltration on-site and are to be 
appropriately landscaped eg, driveways 
should have sealed wheel tracks with grass 
strips.

C22.    Development should have a maximum 

driveway crossover of:

a)   6m for residential flat buildings; and

b)   4m for other residential development 
where the lot width is 12m or greater 
and 3.5m where the lot width is less 
than 12m. 

C23.    All multi unit development and residential 

flat buildings should ensure that all vehicle 
parking is behind the building line and 
arranged so that all vehicles may be driven 
in a forward direction during both ingress 
and egress from the site.

provided to detached dual occupancy 
development to enable access to the rear 
dwelling.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-122 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY E4   Ancillary structures

E4.1  Fencing 

Fencing is an important streetscape element and can 
indicate the architectural period of an area. Consistent 
and uniform front fencing contributes significantly to the 
streetscape and character of an area.

For the purpose of this DCP, front fencing is any fence 
between the front alignment of a building and the street 
boundary.

Whilst privacy and security of individual households 
is an important consideration, high blank fencing 
along the street has a negative impact on the 
streetscape, personal safety and security by reducing 
the opportunities for overlooking of private areas. The 
construction of high blank front fencing is therefore not 
desirable and should be avoided.

Objectives

O1.  To maintain and enhance the character of 
streetscapes within the Canada Bay LGA.

O2.  To ensure that views from streets are maintained 
and not negated by excessively high fences.

O3.  To reduce the impact of front fencing on the 

streetscape and encourage fencing consistent 
with the existing streetscape pattern and in 
sympathy with the general topography and the 
architectural style of the existing dwelling or new 
development.

O4.  To ensure that materials used in front fencing are 
of high quality and are in keeping with the existing 
streetscape character.

O5.  To retain and re-use original fences and gates.

O6.  To reinstate traditional period fences and gates on 

street frontages (including side streets) that is of 
an appropriate architectural style to complement 
existing buildings. 

 Height of front fencing 

Controls

C1. 

  Front fencing and side fencing forward 

of the building line constructed of a solid 
material such as brick/masonry, lapped and 
capped, timber, brushwood and the like 
should not exceed 900mm (including piers) 
in height above the footpath level. 

Refer to Figure E3.20

C2. 

  Front fencing and side fencing forward of 
the building line, constructed of visually 
transparent material such as timber picket/
metal grill, should not exceed 1.2m in 
height above the footpath level. Visually 
transparent components should be no less 
than 40% of the fence structure and should 
be distributed evenly along the entire length 
of the fence. 

Refer to Figure E3.21

C3. 

  From the building line, side fences are to 

taper down to the height of the front fence 
line.

C4. 

C5. 

In the case of sloping streets, the height 
limitations may be averaged, with regular 
steps.

  Solid fences greater than 1.2 m will only 
be considered in a streetscape which 
is shown in the Streetscape Character 
Analysis to exhibit in excess of 70% high 
solid fence forms. In such circumstance 
the appearance of the fence should be 
softened by:

a)   Providing a continuous landscaped area 
of not less than 600mm wide on the 
street side of the fence, planted with 
tree and shrub species selected on the 
basis of low maintenance attributes; and

b)   The use of openings and variations in 
colour, texture or materials to create 
visual interest.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-123 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
Design of fences

Controls

C6. 

  Avoid painting or rendering original 
masonry and sandstone fencing.

C7. 

  New fencing should complement any 
original fencing found on adjoining 
properties and in the street in terms of 
style, height, materials, colour, texture, 
rhythm of bays and openings.

Note: Blank walls disrupt established 
fencing patterns and should be avoided.

C8. 

  Fencing and associated walls must be 

positioned so as not to interfere with any 
existing trees.

Materials

Controls

.
x
a
m
0
0
9

Figure E3.20  Example of solid front fencing with a height of 900mm

Illustration 5.36 Example of solid front fencing with a height of

900mm

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

C9. 

  Materials of construction will be considered 
on their merit, with regard being given 
to materials of construction of other 
contributory fences in the vicinity and/or 
that of the building on the allotment where 
such materials enhance the streetscape – 
with a general prohibition on the following 
materials:

a)   Cement block;

b)   Metal sheeting, profiled, treated or 

.
x
a
m
0
0
2
1

Figure E3.21  Example of open front fencing with a height of 1200mm

Illustration 5.37 Example of an open front fencing with a height

of 1200mm

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

pre-coated.

c)   Fibro, flat or profile;

d)   Brushwood; and

e)   Barbed wire.

General

Controls

C10.    Gates and doors are to be of a type which 
do not encroach over the street alignment 
during operation.

Advisory Notes

All controls are subject to the provision of adequate 
sight lines for emerging vehicles to enable surveillance 
of pedestrian and vehicle traffic. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-124 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY .

x

a

m

0

0

9

E4.2  Site facilities

Site facilities include:

•  Air conditioners;

•  outbuildings;

•  TV aerials and satellite reception dishes;

•  mail boxes;

Air Conditioners

Controls

C1. 

  Air conditioning units should be sited so 
that they are not visible from the street.

C2. 

  Air conditioning units should not be 

installed on the front façade of a building.

•  garbage storage and collection areas;

C3. 

  Air conditioning units should not be 

•  external storage areas;

•  clothes drying areas; 

•  external laundry facilities and

•  swimming pools and spas.

Illustration 5.36 Example of solid front fencing with a height of

900mm

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Proposals need to ensure adequate and appropriate 
provision of site facilities. These need to be accessible 
and not create amenity problems such as smell and 
unsightliness. The impact of site facilities on the overall 
appearance of the site and on the local streetscape 
needs to be considered.

The design of site facilities for multi-unit dwellings 
needs particular consideration as these facilities are 
shared. They need to be designed and located so that 
they are accessible by all residents and do not detract 
from the amenity of any residence. 

Objectives

O1.  To ensure that adequate provision is made for site 

facilities.

O2.  To ensure that site facilities are functional and 

accessible to all residents.

O3.  To ensure that site facilities are easy to maintain.

O4.  To ensure that site facilities are thoughtfully and 
sensitively integrated into development, are 
unobtrusive and not unsightly.

installed within window frames or otherwise 
obscure a window.

C4. 

  Air conditioning units should not obscure 
architectural details visible from the street.

C5. 

  The noise level from air conditioning 

systems is not to exceed the L aeq 15 
minute by 5dBA measured at the property 
boundary.

Outbuildings and outdoor structures

Controls

C6. 

  Outbuildings and outdoor structures should 
be located behind the front building line.

This clause does not apply to any required 
waste storage area for multi dwelling 
housing and residential flat buildings, front 
fences or carports permissible under the 
provisions of this DCP.

C7. 

  Windows and doors of outbuildings should 
face into the rear yard, or be frosted, if 
facing into a neighbour’s property.

Clothes drying facilities

Controls

C8. 

  Adequate open air clothes drying facilities 

should be provided that are easily 
accessible to all residents and are visually 
screened from the street and adjoining 
premises.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-125 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY Numbering of buildings

Swimming pools and spas

Controls

Controls

C9. 

  Street numbers are to be placed on the 

building in accordance with Council’s street 
numbering system and be visible from the 
primary street frontage.

Public utilities

Controls

C10.    For new development and substantial 

alterations to existing premises provision 
must be made for connection to future 
underground distribution mains.

In such developments the following must be 
installed:

•  an underground service line to a suitable 

existing street pole; or

•  sheathed underground consumers mains 
to a customer pole erected near the front 
property boundary (within 1 metre).

Council may require the bundling of cables 
in the area surrounding the development to 
reduce the visual impact of the overhead 
cables.

For further details see Energy Australia 
requirements.

Mail boxes

Controls

C11.    All mail boxes associated with multi-
dwelling housing and residential flat 
buildings should be designed in a manner 
that enhances the visual presentation of the 
building(s) they serve.

C12.   

Individual mail boxes should be located 
close to each ground floor dwelling entry. 
A mail box structure may be located 
close to the major pedestrian entry to the 
site. All mail boxes must comply with the 
requirements of Australia Post.

C13.    Mail box structures should not dominate the 

street elevation.

C14.    Swimming pools and spas should be 
located behind the front building line.

C15.    For corner allotments or where the property 

has two street frontages, the location of 
swimming pools/spas is not to be in the 
primary frontage.

C16.    Swimming pools/spas should be positioned 
so that the coping is a minimum of 800mm 
from the property boundary.

C17.   

In-ground swimming pools should be built 
so that the top of the swimming pool is 
as close to the existing ground level as 
possible. On sloping sites this will often 
mean excavation of the site on the high 
side to obtain the minimum out of ground 
exposure of the swimming pool at the low 
side.

C18.    Provided one point on the swimming pool 

or one side of the swimming pool is at 
or below existing ground level, then one 
other point or one other side may be up to 
500mm above existing ground level.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-126 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY Tennis Courts

Controls

TV antennae and satellite dishes

Controls

C19.    Tennis courts are to be sited at the rear of 

C29.    Satellite dishes, telecommunication 

properties.

antennae and ancillary facilities are to be:

C20.    For corner allotments or where the property 

a)   Located away from the front and side 

boundries;

b)   Installed so that they do not encroach 
upon any easements, rights of ways, 
vehicular access or parking spaces 
required for the property, and

c)   Painted in colours selected to match the 

colour scheme of the building.

C30.    Satellite dishes where they are situated in 
rear yards are to be less than 1.8m above 
ground. 

C31.    Only one (1) telecommunications/TV 

antennae will be permitted for each 
residential flat building.

has two street frontages, the location of 
tennis courts is not to be in the primary 
frontage.

C21.    A minimum of five (5) metres should be 

maintained between the tennis court 
fencing and habitable rooms of any 
dwelling.

C22.    Tennis courts should be positioned having 

regard to the location of habitable rooms 
both on site and on adjoining properties 
and to the maintenance of appropriate 
private open space.

C23.    Screen planting should be provided 

between court fencing and the nearest 
property boundary or any dwelling on an 
adjoining property.

C24.    The court playing surface should be of a 

material that minimises light reflection.

C25.    Flood lighting is generally not permitted 

unless it can be demonstrated the lighting 
and use of the court at night will not 
interfere with neighbour amenity.

C26.    Fencing material is to be a recessive 

colour.

C27.    Fences are to be set back a minimum of 

1.5 metres from boundaries.

C28.    Cut and fill associated with the construction 

of a tennis court should not unreasonably 
intrude into the natural topography of the 
land.

Canada Bay DCP - Part E             ########PageE-127 

Development Control Plan Part E     Residential DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY F

PART F - MIXED USE AREAS AND NEIGHBOURHOOD CENTRES 

 

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-128 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY F1   General Requirements

F1.1  General objectives

F1.2  Building design and 

The controls in this section of the DCP apply to 
permissible development in mixed use areas and 
neighbourhood centres. It contains general controls 
that apply to all commercial development and specific 
controls that apply to selected commercial precincts.

O1.  To facilitate the development of ALL commercial 
areas in a way that is economically sustainable 
and environmentally sensitive.

O2.  To encourage the revitalisation of commercial 

areas by enabling mixed use development 
including residential in certain areas.

O3.  To ensure development contributes to the 

improvement and amenity of public spaces.

O4.  To maintain the heritage values through 

appropriate alterations and additions.

appearance

The City of Canada Bay’s business centres are 
characterised by retail shopping strips, formed by a 
unique interaction between local topography, street 
layout, subdivision pattern and building form.

Façade treatment, the line of continuous awnings and 
the general vertical building proportions assist in tying 
buildings together into cohesive groups.

Objectives

O1.  To ensure infill development is well articulated, 

makes a positive contribution to the streetscape 
and responds to local urban character.

O2.  To ensure development presents a clear and 
visually interesting address to the street.

O3.  Alterations and additions respect the identified 
heritage and conservation values of the place.

O4.  To retain the use of awnings as visually dominant 

and co-ordinating townscape features.

O5.  To encourage awnings which are lighter and more 
elegant in appearance to allow more light through 
to shop fronts.

O6.  To ensure new development maintains a 

pedestrian scale and provides weather protection 
at street level.

Articulated infill development responds to local urban 
character

Lighter, elegant awnings increase the visibility of shop 
fronts

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-129 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY Controls 

Building massing

C1. 

  Building mass should maintain the 

prevailing vertical character found in 
Canada Bay’s business centres.

Verandahs and balconies

C12.    The reinstatement of verandahs is 

encouraged where evidence of the original 
structure exists.

C2. 

  Disruption of the street wall massing is not 

C13.    Balcony balustrades should be of a light 

permitted.

Building facades

C3. 

  Where development has two (2) street 
frontages the streetscape should be 
addressed by both facades.

Development should provide a definitive 
street address to both facades when 
fronting a main road and a smaller road or 
car park.

Roofs and parapets

C4. 

In commercial areas where parapet 
skylines predominate, infill development 
should also include parapet skylines.

Awnings

C5. 

  Refurbishment or redevelopment of a 

building should include the provision of 
an awning of a similar height, width and 
general appearance to that of adjoining 
contributory awnings.

C6. 

  Awnings should be reinstated where there 
is evidence that they were originally fitted 
or where there is a break in a continuous 
run of awnings.

C7. 

  New awnings on corner buildings should 

wrap around into side streets.

C8. 

  New awnings should be no more than 

600mm higher or lower than neighbouring 
awnings, for continuity.

C9. 

  Awnings are to be flat or near flat in shape. 
Raised or curved awning structures are not 
permitted.

C10.    Eaves and fascias are to be flat or near flat 

in shape.

C11.    Awning fascias are to be a maximum 
300mm high including any added on 
signage and in keeping with the scale and 
character of the building.

open material. Where possible, balustrades 
are to match predominant examples within 
the streetscape.

C14.    Existing verandahs and balconies should 

be retained and not infilled.

Car parking

C15.    On-site car parking should be located below 

ground level where possible or located 
within the building and well screened, or to 
the rear off a laneway.

Public utilities

C16.    For new development and substantial 

alterations to existing premises provision 
must be made for connection to future 
underground distribution mains.

In such developments the following must be 
installed:

•  an underground service line to a suitable 

existing street pole; or

•  sheathed underground consumers mains 
to a customer pole erected near the front 
property boundary (within 1 metre).

Council may require the bundling of cables 
in the area surrounding the development to 
reduce the visual impact of overhead street 
cables. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-130 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY  
F1.3  Retail frontages

F1.4  Visual and acoustic privacy

Direct and easy access from the footpath to the retail 
premises “draws the street into the shop”. Active 
frontages are therefore a vital contributing factor to a 
business centre's vitality. 

Objectives

Privacy refers to both visual and acoustic privacy.

Where buildings are constructed adjacent to residential 
properties, particular regard should be had to any 
possible loss of privacy which may be caused to 
residents.

O1.  To preserve the surviving examples of original 

whole shop frontages and elements.

Objective

O1.  New development is to ensure adequate visual 
and acoustic privacy levels for neighbours and 
residents.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

Openable first floor windows and doors 
as well as balconies should be located so 
as to face the front or rear of the building.

Where it is impractical to locate windows 
other than facing an adjoining building, 
the windows should be offset to avoid 
a direct view into windows in adjacent 
buildings.

O2.  To encourage new or replacement shop fronts to 

be compatible with the architectural style or period 
of the building to which they belong and the 
overall character of the business centre.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

New shopfronts should be designed to 
make maximum use of vertical elements, 
i.e. windows should emphasise a vertical 
proportion (height greater than width). 

Original early shop fronts in existing 
buildings should be retained and 
conserved.

If security shutters are required, they 
should be visually permeable (75% 
permeability) to allow viewing of windows 
and allow light to spill out onto the 
footpath. Open grilles (concertina style) 
are preferred. Note: Block-out roller 
shutters are not permitted.

Retail frontages on corner sites should "turn the corner"

Fixed screens help ensure adequate privacy  

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-131 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
C3. 

C4. 

Where the visual privacy of adjacent 
properties is likely to be significantly 
affected from windows, doors and 
balconies, or where external driveways 
and/or parking spaces are located close 
to bedrooms of adjoining buildings, one 
or more of the following alternatives are 
to be applied:

(a) Fixed screens of a reasonable density 
(minimum 75% block out) should be 
provided in a position suitable to alleviate 
loss of privacy;

(b) Where there is an alternative source 
of natural ventilation, windows are to be 
provided with translucent glazing and 
fixed permanently closed;

(c) Suitable screen planting or planter 
boxes are to be provided in an 
appropriate position to reduce the loss of 
privacy of adjoining premises: 

Note: This option will only be acceptable 
where it can be demonstrated that the 
longevity of the screen planting will be 
assured.

(d) Windows are off-set or splayed to 
reduce privacy effects; and

(e) Windows to have a sill height of 
1.8 metres or more above floor level or 
fixed translucent glazing to any part of a 
window less than 1.8 metres above floor 
level.

New development containing dwellings 
along a major road or along a railway 
corridor should incorporate noise 
attenuation measures.

F1.5  Safety and security

Sensible design can contribute significantly to crime 
prevention by providing environments where members 
of the public feel safe and secure and conversely 
vandals have a feeling of being under surveillance.

Objectives

O1.  To ensure a safe physical environment by 

promoting crime prevention through design.

O2.  To encourage increased use of shopping centres, 

particularly at night.

O3.  To create a balance of uses that are safe and 

easily accessible.

O4.  To ensure there is adequate lighting and signage.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

C6. 

Pedestrian ways and car parking, 
particularly those used at night, are to 
be direct, clearly defined, visible and 
provided with adequate lighting.

Landscaping and site features that might 
block sight lines are to be minimised.

Shadows and concealment spaces are to 
be minimised.

All entrances and exits are to be made 
clearly visible.

Windows etc. should be arranged to 
overlook public areas and streets to 
maximise surveillance.

Developments generating a significant 
amount of pedestrian movement through 
a car park (such as shopping centres or 
office car parks) are to establish clear 
and convenient pedestrian routes. These 
routes must minimise the number of 
points which cross vehicle paths and 
be appropriately marked to heighten 
driver awareness (e.g. painting, use of 
contrasting materials, lighting and/ or 
signage).

C7. 

Pedestrian access to buildings should be 
separate to vehicular access to the site.

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-132 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
F1.6  Daylight and sunlight access

The design of a development should attempt to ensure 
that where adjoining buildings, particularly residential 
dwellings, are located in close proximity, the design of 
such projects minimises any potential loss of sunlight or 
daylight to residences.

Objectives

O1.  To ensure that daylight access is provided to 

all habitable rooms and other areas to improve 
amenity and energy efficiency.

O2.  To minimise the amount of overshadowing of 

neighbouring developments and outdoor spaces 
to maintain their amenity.

Controls

C1. 

Direct solar access (sunshine) to 
windows of principal living areas and 
to the principal area of open space of 
dwellings adjacent to commercial zones 
should not be reduced to less than 3 
hours between 9.00am and 3.00pm on 
21 June.

Articulated infill development responds 
to local urban character

Screens can help control sunlight access 

Stepping a building down to the rear can minimise the 
overshadowing of neighbouring developments 

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-133 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY  
F1.7  Building envelope controls 

Objectives

and site specific design 
controls

The building envelope is the three dimensional space 
within which development may take place. The building 
envelope is generated by maximum building height, 
FSR and setback controls.

The building envelope aims to ensure that the scale 
and bulk of future development is compatible with site 
conditions and the desired future character.

The building envelope helps achieve the LEP and 
DCP’s objectives of:

•  ensuring a scale of commercial development that is 
compatible with the amenity of surrounding areas;

•  ensuring the bulk and scale of development reflects 

the character of the streets which define these 
precincts; and

•  ensuring that the bulk and scale of development is 
compatible with the amenity of surrounding areas.

The building envelope helps to achieve the DCP’s 
objectives by setting out guidelines and controls that 
work with the LEP requirements for FSR.

The building envelope controls contain flexibility to 
ensure that these controls can be appropriately adapted 
to site opportunities and the important character 
elements of a street or locality.

The building envelope for a site represents the 
maximum limits of development. It cannot always be 
100% developed due to different building standards for 
different building types.

O1.  To ensure front setbacks maintain the continuity of 

setbacks in the street.

O2.  To ensure buildings are of a height and scale 

which is consistent with the character of the area.

O3.  To maintain the privacy and amenity of adjoining 

and nearby residential developments.

Successful buildings balance solid and void components 
within the building envelope 

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-134 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY F2   Building Envelope controls and site specific design controls

F2.1  Victoria Road, Drummoyne

Victoria Road is the transport artery of Drummoyne that 
moves people and goods in and throughout the area. Its 
character reflects the bustling and aggressive transport 
function combined with a mix of commercial and retail 
uses.

The Victoria Road commercial area is defined by 
the strip of commercial and retail buildings which 
line both sides of Victoria Road. A mix of 1-3 storey 
buildings address Victoria Road with varying setbacks. 
Collectively these buildings display a pattern of vertical 
elements, detailed awnings, parapets and silhouettes.

The intersection of Victoria and Lyons Road is located 
on a ridgetop and is an important urban and landscape 
feature containing a mix of civic scaled and articulated 
buildings. It is a landmark location due to these 
architectural and topographic qualities. This intersection 
and the buildings located here form the gateway to 
Drummoyne and establish the key character.

Parts of the Victoria Road strip are located within 
conservation areas. Individual heritage items are also 
found in this area. Conservation areas and heritage 
items are important for their contribution to the 
streetscape character and history of the area.

The intersection of the eastern side of Victoria Road 
and Lyons Road is part of a conservation area. The 
buildings on the south east side of this intersection are 
identified as having heritage significance and represent 
an example of Edwardian shopping centre development 
that forms an almost intact streetscape at the crown of 
the hill.

The zoning of this area allows for mixed use activities 
including shop top housing with ground floor retail. 
Encouraging mixed use development is considered 
appropriate in some areas provided resident amenity 
is satisfactory. Providing mixed use development 
can enhance street activity and surveillance while 
revitalising the area with new shops, services and 
residents.

The future character of Victoria Road:

•  emphasise the distinctive “busy” urban quality

•  encourage mixed use development to create a 
thriving urban area with retail, residential and 
commercial uses;

•  improve the streetscape character by coordinated 

advertising policies;

•  encourage street edge development to activate the 

street;

•  ensure that any alterations and additions respect the 
conservation and heritage values of the area; and

•  emphasise the western corner of the Victoria and 
Lyons Road intersection as a strong corner site to 
signify the gateway to Drummoyne.

Controls have been developed for seven key precincts 
within the commercial area (labeled A-G in Figure 
F2.1). These have been developed in response to the 
streetscape, type and form of buildings and relationship 
with adjoining areas.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

Infill development in the Drummoyne 
Commercial Area should include parapet 
skylines and use non-reflective materials.

Buildings should be built to the street 
alignment.

Transitional building heights should be 
provided between the commercial and 
residential areas to protect the amenity of 
surrounding neighbours.

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-135 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
A

G

Council area map 

B

F

C

C

F

D

E

E

E

E

Figure F2.1   Victoria Road Drummoyne - Location Plan

N

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-136 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY Area A

Controls

C4. 

C5. 

Area B

Controls

Development is to be built to the street 
edge.

Maximum building height is two (2)
storeys.

C6. 

C7. 

C8. 

Development is to be built to the street 
edge.

The maximum building height is six (6) 
storeys.

For mixed use development, special 
consideration must be given to:

•  noise attenuation measures;

•  privacy issues;

•  the provision of landscaping and private 

open space as roof gardens;

•  residential amenity;

•  ESD objectives, including cross 

ventilation and floor to ceiling heights;

•  fenestration treatment and adequate 

solar shading;

•  articulation and massing of the façade; 

and

•  limited reflective surfaces with a more 
solid wall to window void opening ratio.

Area C

Controls

C9. 

C10.   

C11.   

C12.   

Area D

Controls

C13.   

C14.   

Maximum building height is four (4) 
storeys at Victoria Road reducing to two 
(2) storeys along Formosa Street. The 
two (2) storey development should extend 
for a minimum depth of 1/3 of the site 
east of Formosa Street.

Refer to building envelope in Figure F2.2.

Street edge development is required 
along Victoria Road and Formosa Street.

Roof form at Formosa Street is a parapet 
edge.

Development of a heritage item should 
be in accordance with the controls in 
Part D - Heritage. For heritage items, a 
statement of heritage impact is required 
to accompany development applications.

Street edge development is required 
along Victoria Road and Formosa Street.

Maximum building height at the Victoria 
Road alignment is five (5) storeys, 
stepping up to six (6) storeys. The six 
(6) storey component is to be set back 
a minimum of 3 metres from the five (5) 
storey component on Victoria Road.

The maximum building height at the 
Formosa Street alignment is two (2) 
storeys, stepping up to three (3) storeys. 
The three (3) storey component is to 
be set back a minimum of 5.0 metres 
from the two (2) storey component on 
Formosa Street.

The two (2) and three (3) storey 
component is to extend for a minimum of 
1/3 of the site east of Formosa Street

Refer to building envelope in Figure F2.3.

C15.   

Roof form at both Victoria Road and 
Formosa Street is a parapet edge.

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-137 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
C16.   

A continuous cantilevered awning is to be 
provided on the Victoria Road frontage.

Area E 

Controls

C17.   

Area F 

Controls

C18.   

C19.   

C20.   

Area G

Controls

C21.   

C22.   

C23.   

Maximum building height is two (2) 
storeys.

Maximum building height of three (3) 
storeys to Victoria Road tapering to one 
(1) storey at the rear boundary.

Refer to building envelope in Figure F2.4

Development is to be built to the street 
edge.

Any development of a heritage item 
should be in accordance with the controls 
in Part D - Heritage. For heritage items, a 
statement of heritage impact is required 
to accompany development applications.

Maximum building height is two (2) 
storeys on Victoria Road, Lyons Road 
and Wrights Road, with four (4) storeys 
within the centre of the site.

Development is to be built to the street 
edge.

Any development of a heritage item 
should be in accordance with the heritage 
controls contained within this DCP. For 
heritage items, a statement of heritage 
impact is also required to accompany 
development applications.

Refer to building envelope in Figure F2.5

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-138 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY Third story to be within central 

portion of the site (out of line of sight)

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Parapet/roof form to 

relate to neighbouring 

buildings 

Continuous 

cantilevered 

awning 

V I C T O R I A 

A V E N TU E 

Parapet/roof form to 
relate to neighbouring 
buildings 

Continuous 
cantilevered 
awning 

M A J O R S   B A Y 
R O A D 

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Minimum rear 

boundary setback 

6m 

m

0

.

1

1

m

5

.

7

Minimum rear 

boundary setback 

6m 

m
0
.
1
1

m
5
.
7

Y

R

A

D

N

U

O

B

R

A

E

R

Y
R
A
D
N
U
O
B

R
A
E
R

Third story to be within central 

portion of the site (out of line of sight)

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Step down at rear to be compatible 

with adjacent residencies

Parapet edge

Cantilevered 
awning at 
entrances

V I C T O R I A   
R O A D 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Minimum setback 
1/3 of site depth 

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Cantilevered 
awning at 
entrances

F O R M O S A  
S T R E E T 

Figure F2.2   Victoria Road Drummoyne Area C- Maximum Building Envelope Section

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Level 3
1/3 of site depth 

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Minimum setback 
5m 

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Parapet edge

Continuous 
cantilevered awning 
where applicable

V I C T O R I A   
R O A D 

Level 3

Minimum setback 
1/4 of site depth 

Level 2

Level 1

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

F O R M O S A  
S T R E E T 

Parapet edge

Level 4

Level 3

Figure F2.3   Victoria Road Drummoyne Area D- Maximum Building Envelope Section
Continuous 
cantilevered awning 
where applicable

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Level 3
2/3 of site depth 

30 

Level 2

Minimum setback 
3m 

Ground Floor 

Level 6

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Minimum setback 
1/4 of site depth 

Level 2

Level 2

Ground Floor 
Ground Floor 

Parapet edge

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Cantilevered 
awning at 
entrances

V I C T O R I A   
R O A D 

V I C T O R I A    R O A D / 
LY O N S   R O A D  

W R I G H T S   
R O A D 

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-139 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third story to be within central 

portion of the site (out of line of sight)

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Third story to be within central 

V I C T O R I A 

portion of the site (out of line of sight)

A V E N TU E 

Third story to be within central 

Level 3

portion of the site (out of line of sight)

Step down at rear to be compatible 

with adjacent residencies

D

M A J O R S   B A Y 

portion of the site (out of line of sight)

Third story to be within central 

R O A D 

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Step down at rear to be compatible 

with adjacent residencies

Minimum rear 

boundary setback 

6m 

m

0

.

1

1

m

5

.

7

Minimum rear 

boundary setback 

6m 

Minimum rear 

boundary setback 

.

m

0

1

1

6m 

m

5

.

7

m

0

.

1

1

m

5

.

7

Minimum rear 

boundary setback 

6m 

m

0

.

1

1

m

5

.

7

Y

R

A

D

N

U

O

B

R

A

E

R

Y

R

A

N

U

O

B

R

A

Y

E

R

R

A

D

N

U

O

B

R

A

E

R

Y

R

A

D

N

U

O

B

R

A

E

R

Parapet/roof form to 

relate to neighbouring 

buildings 

Continuous 

cantilevered 

awning 

Parapet/roof form to 

relate to neighbouring 

buildings 

Continuous 

cantilevered 

Parapet/roof form to 

awning 

relate to neighbouring 

buildings 

V I C T O R I A 

A V E N TU E 

Continuous 

cantilevered 

awning 

Parapet/roof form to 

relate to neighbouring 

buildings 

Continuous 

cantilevered 

awning 

Parapet edge

M A J O R S   B A Y 
R O A D 

Cantilevered 
awning at 
entrances

V I C T O R I A   
R O A D 

Parapet edge

Cantilevered 
awning at 
entrances

Parapet edge

V I C T O R I A   
R O A D 

Continuous 
cantilevered awning 
where applicable

V I C T O R I A   
R O A D 

Parapet edge

Level 3

Level 3

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Minimum setback 

1/3 of site depth 

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Cantilevered 
awning at 
entrances

Minimum setback 
1/3 of site depth 

F O R M O S A  
S T R E E T 

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Level 2

Ground Floor 

30 

Cantilevered 
awning at 
entrances

Level 3

Level 2

F O R M O S A  
S T R E E T 

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Figure F2.4   Victoria Road Drummoyne Area F - Maximum Building Envelope Section
Level 3
Maximum 
Minimum setback 
building 
1/4 of site depth 
envelope 
Level 2

Level 3

Continuous 
cantilevered awning 
where applicable

30 

Minimum setback 
1/4 of site depth 
Level 2

Parapet edge

Ground Floor 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 4

Level 3

Ground Floor 

Level 2

Ground Floor 
Minimum setback 
1/4 of site depth 

Level 2

Ground Floor 

V I C T O R I A   
R O A D 

Parapet edge

Continuous 
cantilevered awning 
where applicable

V I C T O R I A    R O A D / 
LY O N S   R O A D  

Parapet edge

Continuous 
cantilevered awning 
where applicable

V I C T O R I A    R O A D / 
LY O N S   R O A D  

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Level 2

Ground Floor 
Minimum setback 
1/4 of site depth 

Parapet edge

W R I G H T S   
R O A D 

Level 2

Ground Floor 

W R I G H T S   
R O A D 

Figure F2.5   Victoria Road Drummoyne Area G - Maximum Building Envelope Section

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-140 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
F2.2  Five Dock Town Centre

Council area map 

Context

The Five Dock Town Centre is focused along each 
side of Great North Road between Queens Road and 
Fairlight Street to the south and Lyons Road to the 
north. The centre is a commercial, civic, community 
and residential precinct, with a local neighbourhood 
emphasis and consists primarily of 2-3 storey buildings. 

Variety is created along the streetscape through 
different building styles which range from Edwardian 
and inter-war buildings to more recent development 
including a mixed use building on Garfield Street, which 
incorporates the Five Dock public library.

The centre starts in the south at the ridge line 
intersection at Fairlight/Queens Road with Great North 
Road and extends along Great North Road past First 
Avenue and Garfield Street with the northern end 
defined by intersection with the Lyons Road/Lyons 
Road West. The highest part of the centre occurs to the 
south of the centre between Kings Road and Second 
Avenue. 

Taller buildings have views to the Sydney CBD and 
the Sydney Harbour Bridge to the north-east, Hen and 
Chicken Bay to the north-west and the Blue Mountains 
to the west. Land use zoning allows mixed use 
activities, including apartments with retail uses located 
on the ground floor, along Great North Road.

Land to which this DCP applies

This Part applies to all land shown within the area 
identified in Figure F2.6 Location Plan.

Desired future character

The Five Dock Town Centre will be a place where new 
buildings, alterations and additions contribute to the 
local 'village character' and heritage values through 
appropriate building forms, setbacks and heights. 

Development proposals in the centre are required 
to provide a written statement that outlines how the 
following future character performance criteria have 
been achieved: 

•  Mixed use: New developments and alterations add 

to the centre's function as a vibrant destination for the 
local community and visitors, by providing a diverse 
mix of uses including retail, hospitality, residential and 
recreational facilities. 

•  Well-proportioned streetscapes: The bulk and scale 
of new development and alterations ensures good 
access to sunlight and natural ventilation is retained 
along the centre's streets and to areas of public open 
space. Built form will also create consistent street 
wall heights, especially along Great North Road, 
and ensure the bulk and scale steps down towards 
adjoining residential areas. 

•  Quality built form: New buildings and alterations 
display a high level of architectural design quality 
with construction methods and materials that are 
proven to be durable over time, colours that integrate 
with the context and building articulation that is 
sympathetic with adjoining built form and the local 
'village character'. 

•  Safety and surveillance: New buildings and 

alterations support street level activity by paying 
particular attention to the design of ground floors, 
facades, signage and awnings and by providing 
opportunities for passive surveillance of the public 
domain from upper levels. 

•  Access and mobility: New development supports 
accessibility of the centre by reinforcing, and where 
possible adding to, a permeable and attractive 
network of streets, lanes, footpaths and pedestrian 
links.

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-141 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY LEGEND 

Land to which this DCP applies 

Lots with heritage building/ item 

Cadastre boundaries

LEGEND 

Land to which this DCP applies 

Lots with heritage building/ item 

Cadastre boundaries

LEGEND 

Land to which this DCP applies 

Lots with heritage building/ item 

Cadastre boundaries

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

LOCATION PLAN 

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

Figure F2.6   Location Plan 

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

LOCATION PLAN 

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

LOCATION PLAN 

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-142 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY KINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDBARNSTAPLE RD GREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVEWATERVIEW STLYONS ROAD KINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDBARNSTAPLE RD GREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVEWATERVIEW STLYONS ROAD KINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDBARNSTAPLE RD GREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVEWATERVIEW STLYONS ROAD  
 
 
Public open space 

Objectives

O1.  To increase the amount of open space in 

the centre and to provide more areas for the 
community to meet, gather and relax.

O2.  To ensure areas of open space have access 
to adequate sunlight especially in mid-winter 
between 12-2pm.

O3.  To ensure new areas of open space are of a 

sufficient size to accommodate a wide variety of 
activities.

Controls 

C1. 

  Provide a Northern Gateway Plaza on the 
corner of Lyons Road and Great North 
Road (identified as Public Open Space A in 
Figure F2.8 Public Domain).

C2. 

  Widen Fred Kelly Place to the north 

(identified as Public Open Space B in 
Figure F2.8 Public Domain).

C3. 

  Provide a new town square on the eastern 
side of Great North Road opposite Fred 
Kelly Place (identified as Public Open 
Space C in Figure F2.8 Public Domain).

New laneways 

Objectives

O4.  To improve east west access and connectivity, 

making it easier and more attractive to cycle and 
walk through the centre. 

O5.  To attract people to the new town square and 

create a pleasant safe environment around the 
square.

O6.  To facilitate car parking exits and entries for 

buildings fronting Great North Road.

O7.  To provide the opportunity to service businesses 

on Great North Road and limit service vehicle 
movements along residential streets, e.g. along 
Waterview Street.

O8.  To improve existing and create new connections 
between the Five Dock Public School (West 
Street) and Great North Road.

Controls 

C4. 

  Provide a network of new laneways in the 
block bounded by First Avenue, Second 
Avenue, Waterview Street and Great North 
Road.

C5. 

  Provide a new laneway between East Street 
and West Street along the alignment of 
Lancelot Street. 

C6. 

  Provide a new laneway between Barnstaple 

Road and Second Avenue. 

C7. 

  All laneways are to be a minimum of six (6) 

to nine (9) metres wide.  Where a laneway is 
less than nine (9) metres, the design of the 
laneway must demonstrate how vehicular 
and pedestrian traffic can be managed to 
avoid conflicts and safety issues. 

C8. 

  New development between Barnstaple 

Road and Second Avenue is not permitted 
to provide vehicular access and servicing 
off Great North Road, Waterview Street, 
Barnstaple Road or Second Avenue.  All 
vehicular access and servicing must be 
provided off the proposed laneway.

Pedestrian connections 

Objectives

O9.  To improve east-west access, making it easier to 

cycle and walk through the centre.

O10. To create new access routes that support 

pedestrian activity along Great North Road. 

Controls 

C9. 

  Provide a new mid-block link between Great 

North Road and East Street within the 
hatched area identified in Figure F2.7 Access 
Network and Hierarchy. 

C10.    Provide a new mid-block link between 

Garfield Street and Kings Road within the 
hatched area identified in Figure F2.7 Access 
Network and Hierarchy. 

C11.    Widen the existing pedestrian link to the east 
of Great North Road opposite Garfield Street.

C12.    All pedestrian links are to be a minimum of 

four (4) metres wide.

C13.    All links are to be activated by retail, civic 

and/or commercial uses.

C14.    All links are to be naturally lit and ventilated, 

and well-lit after hours.

C15.    All links are to be publicly accessible 
between at least 6am and 8pm daily, 
however 24-hour public access is preferred.

C16.    All links are to follow Safer-by-Design (or 

CPTED) principles (i.e. clear lines of sight).

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-143 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY LEGEND 

D

R

H

T

R

O

N

T

A

E

R

G

State-owned road (RMS) 

Local steet - collector

Local street - access

B A R N S T A P L E   R D  

Laneway / pedestrian link   

HENRY ST

Laneway (strata) 

Proposed laneway 

(preferred location, 6-9m wide)

V

E

M A

A

H

IN

Proposed pedestrian link 

G

(preferred location, min 4m wide)

SECOND AVENUE

Zone in which proposed laneway / link 

should occur  

Open space 

Proposed open space

Five Dock Town Centre boundary 

T

S

W

I

E

F I R S T   A V E

V

R

E

T

A

W

D

R

H

T

R

O

N

T

A

E

R

G

T

E

E

R

T

S

T

S

A

E

E

V

A

S

T

T

E

B

E

V

A

T

T

E

N

N

E

B

LEGEND 

State-owned road (RMS) 

Local steet - collector

Local street - access

Laneway / pedestrian link   

Laneway (strata) 

Proposed laneway 

(preferred location, 6-9m wide)

V

Proposed pedestrian link 

G

(preferred location, min 4m wide)

E

M A

A

H

IN

Zone in which proposed laneway / link 

should occur  

Open space 

Proposed open space

Five Dock Town Centre boundary 

F I R S T   A V E

R I C K A R D   S T

N

O

R

M

A

N

S

T

I

N

G

H

A

M

A

V

E

E

V

A

S
T
T
E
B

E
V
A
T
T
E
N
N
E
B

E

V

A

S

T

T

E

B

LYONS ROAD 

E

V

A

T

T

E

N

N

E

B

LYONS ROAD 

LEGEND 

State-owned road (RMS) 

Local steet - collector

Local street - access

Laneway / pedestrian link   

Laneway (strata) 

Proposed laneway 
(preferred location, 6-9m wide)

E
V

M A
A
H
G
IN

Proposed pedestrian link 
(preferred location, min 4m wide)

D
R
H
T
R
O
N
T
A
E
R
G

B A R N S T A P L E   R D  

SECOND AVENUE

T
S
W
E
I
V
R
E
T
A
W

HENRY ST

T
E
E
R
T
S
T
S
A
E

D
R
H
T
R
O
N
T
A
E
R
G

F I R S T   A V E

R

A

M

S

A

Y R

D

Zone in which proposed laneway / link 
should occur  

Open space 

Proposed open space

Five Dock Town Centre boundary 

F I R S T   A V E

R I C K A R D   S T

N

O

R

M

A

N

S

T

GARFIELD ST

Note: New and expanded 
areas of public open space 
have been identified in this 
plan. It is expected that 
some of these areas will be 
delivered by Council and/or 
as part of the redevelopment 
of adjacent properties.

M

G

H

N

A

A

V

E

I

F I R S T   A V E

R I C K A R D   S T

R

A

M

S

A

Y R

D

F A I R L I G H T   S T R E E T  

N

O

R

M

A

N

S

T

KINGS RD

QUEENS RD

LYONS ROAD 

D
R
H
T
R
O
N
T
A
E
R
G

B A R N S T A P L E   R D  

SECOND AVENUE

T
S
W
E
I
V
R
E
T
A
W

HENRY ST

T
E
E
R
T
S
T
S
A
E

D
R
H
T
R
O
N
T
A
E
R
G

F I R S T   A V E

R

A

M

S

A

Y R

D

GARFIELD ST

F A I R L I G H T   S T R E E T  

KINGS RD

GARFIELD ST

KINGS RD

N

0

50

100

200m

WANGAL PL

H A R R A B R O O K   A V E

L
A
N
G
S
W
O
R
T
H

A
V
E

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

STREET NETWORK 

F A I R L I G H T   S T R E E T  

I

L

L

I

N

O

I

S

R

D

N

E

W

J

E

R

S

E

Y

R

D

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

Figure F2.7   Access Network and Hierarchy 

N

0

50

100

200m

WANGAL PL

N

0

50

100

200m

WANGAL PL

H A R R A B R O O K   A V E

L

A

N

G

S

W

O

R

T

H

A

V

E

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-144 

H A R R A B R O O K   A V E

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

STREET NETWORK 

I

L

L

I

N

O

I

S

R

D

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

I

N

G

H

A

M

A

V

E

L

A

N

G

S

W

O

R

T

H

A

V

E

N

E

W

J

E

R

S

E

Y

R

D

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

STREET NETWORK 

I

L

L

I

N

O

I

S

R

D

N

E

W

J

E

R

S

E

Y

R

D

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

October 2015

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY QUEENS RDLANCELOT STQUEENS RDLANCELOT ST 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A

A

LEGEND 

Existing public open space 

Proposed public open space 

A

  Northern Gateway Plaza 

B

  Fred Kelly Place Extension 

C

  New Town Square 

Existing public laneway with improvements 
to pedestrian environment 

Existing strata-owned laneway with 
improvements to pedestrian environment 

Proposed laneway, preferred location

Proposed pedestrian link, preferred location

Zone in which proposed laneway / link 
should occur  

Five Dock Town Centre boundary 

B

C

B

C

A

LEGEND 

Existing public open space 

Proposed public open space 

A

  Northern Gateway Plaza 

B

  Fred Kelly Place Extension 

C

  New Town Square 

Existing public laneway with improvements 

to pedestrian environment 

Existing strata-owned laneway with 

improvements to pedestrian environment 

Proposed laneway, preferred location

Proposed pedestrian link, preferred location

B

Zone in which proposed laneway / link 

should occur  

C

Five Dock Town Centre boundary 

LEGEND 

Existing public open space 

Proposed public open space 

A

  Northern Gateway Plaza 

B

Fred Kelly Place Extension 

C

  New Town Square 

Existing public laneway with improvements 

to pedestrian environment 

Existing strata-owned laneway with 

improvements to pedestrian environment 

Proposed laneway, preferred location

Proposed pedestrian link, preferred location

Zone in which proposed laneway / link 

should occur  

Five Dock Town Centre boundary 

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

PUBLIC OPEN SPACE PLAN 

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

Figure F2.8   Public Domain 

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

PUBLIC OPEN SPACE PLAN 

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

PUBLIC OPEN SPACE PLAN 

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-145 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY KINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDGREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVELYONS ROAD BARNSTAPLE RD WATERVIEW STKINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDGREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVELYONS ROAD BARNSTAPLE RD WATERVIEW STKINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDGREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVELYONS ROAD BARNSTAPLE RD WATERVIEW ST 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Built Form

Landscaping and setbacks 

The built form controls shape the form of new 
development in the centre, establishing the location, 
height and shape of new buildings. The controls also 
consider visual privacy, sunlight access to adjoining 
properties, usability of private open spaces and 
pedestrian scale and amenity along the street.

Objectives

O1.  To encourage investment in the town centre and 
create attractive places to live, shop and recreate.

Objectives

O9.  To ensure that the amenity of residents, workers 

and visitors to the centre is enhanced by high 
quality landscaping.

O10. To create appropriate landscaping for private and 

common open space areas. 

O11.  To soften and screen the interface between 

buildings in the centre and adjoining residential 
areas.

O2.  To ensure adequate sunlight is available for all 
buildings, streets and public open spaces.

O12. To increase building separation along East Street 
between Henry Street and Lyons Road West. 

O3.  To promote opportunities for catalyst and 

landmark developments in appropriate locations.

O4.  To ensure the ground floor levels along key 

streets are appropriate for retail uses and that 
ground level uses in the remaining streets are 
adaptable over time to a wide range of uses.

O5.  To ensure the urban grain, built form and palette 
of materials used in the design of new buildings 
respond to the “fine grain” character of the 
surrounding area.

O6.  To minimise the visual impact of above ground 
car parking and encourage car parking that is 
adaptable to other uses in the future.

O7.  To enhance the existing streetscape and ensure 

appropriate development scale and interface near 
heritage buildings and residential areas.

High-quality residential development 

Objectives

O8.  To position the Five Dock Town Centre as an 

attractive place to live. 

Controls 

C17.   

Recommendations within the SEPP 65 
(State Environmental Planning Policy 
No 65 - Design Quality of Residential 
Apartment Development) and the 
accompanying Apartment Design Guide 
are adopted by this DCP for apartment 
developments. 

O13. To encourage the landscape character of West 

Street to continue past new development and up 
to Garfield Street. 

Controls 

C18.   

Landscape setbacks are to be in 
accordance with Figure F2.9 Primary 
Setbacks.

C19.    A landscape plan prepared by a qualified 

C20.   

C21.   

Landscape Architect is to be submitted 
with the development application that 
shows levels adjacent to the public domain; 
planting schedules; and type and detail 
of paving, fencing and other details of 
external areas.

The area within the minimum landscape 
setback is to be a deep soil zone, i.e. 
where there are no structures below.

For residential apartment development 
common open space is to be provided 
that occupies a minimum of 25% of the 
site area and has a minimum dimension 
of 3.0m. The common open space may be 
located on an elevated garden (i.e. above 
car parking) or on roof tops provided the 
area provides for the recreational and 
amenity needs of residents.

C22.   

Landscaping is to give preference to 
species with low water needs, including 
native plant species and select and 
position trees and shrubs to control sun 
and winds and provide privacy.

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-146 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY LEGEND 

Nil setback, built-to-alignment and active 
street frontage required 

Nil setback permitted (not required) 

2m setback required (landscaped) 

4.5m setback required (landscaped) 

6m setback required (landscaped)

Continuous awnings required  

Proposed public domain network

Lots with heritage building / item   

Five Dock Town Centre boundary 

LEGEND 

Nil setback, built-to-alignment and active 

street frontage required 

Nil setback permitted (not required) 

2m setback required (landscaped) 

4.5m setback required (landscaped) 

6m setback required (landscaped)

Continuous awnings required  

Proposed public domain network

Lots with heritage building / item   

Five Dock Town Centre boundary 

LEGEND 

Nil setback, built-to-alignment and active 

street frontage required 

Nil setback permitted (not required) 

2m setback required (landscaped) 

4.5m setback required (landscaped) 

6m setback required (landscaped)

Continuous awnings required  

Proposed public domain network

Lots with heritage building / item   

Five Dock Town Centre boundary 

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

PRIMARY SETBACKS

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

Figure F2.9   Primary Setbacks 

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

PRIMARY SETBACKS

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

PRIMARY SETBACKS

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-147 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY KINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDGREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVELYONS ROAD BARNSTAPLE RD WATERVIEW STKINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDGREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVELYONS ROAD BARNSTAPLE RD WATERVIEW STKINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDGREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVELYONS ROAD BARNSTAPLE RD WATERVIEW ST 
 
 
Building setbacks 

Active frontages 

For the purpose of this section of the DCP, the primary 
building setback is the setback between the public 
domain/street boundary and the building alignment, and 
the secondary building setback is the additional setback 
above the street wall height.

Objectives

O14. To allow redevelopment and gradual transition to 

higher densities while at the same time respecting 
heritage buildings and the 'village character' of the 
centre. 

O15. To locate balconies and terraces along streets 
and laneways where they can provide passive 
surveillance (and increased safety) of streets and 
public open spaces.

O16. To reduce potential negative impacts of 

development such as overshadowing of streets 
and public open spaces. 

O17. To minimise negative impacts of development 

on existing development in the town centre and 
surrounding the town centre.

Controls 

C23.   

C24.   

C25.   

Building setbacks are to be in accordance 
with Figure F2.9 Primary Setbacks, Figure 
F2.10 Secondary Setbacks, Figure F2.12 
Maximum Street Wall Heights, Figure 
F2.13 Example Street Frontage Section 
and Figure F2.15 Maximum Building 
Height Zones; and any additional controls 
set out below. 

Any additional floors above four storeys 
have a minimum setback of 6.0m 
unless otherwise shown in Figure F2.10 
Secondary Setbacks. 

Where possible along 6.0m wide 
laneways, increase setbacks above two 
(2) storeys and/or increase ground level 
setbacks to improve pedestrian amenity.

Active frontages and uses contribute to visual and 
physical activity in the centre and include community 
and civic facilities, recreation and leisure facilities and 
shops, restaurants and cafes.

Objectives

O18. To promote activity and interest along key streets 
in the centre, in particular along Great North Road 

O19. To enhance the commercial viability and function 
of the centre and compliment current retail, 
commercial, entertainment and community uses.

O20. To enhance safety and security in the centre.

Controls 

C26.   

C27.   

C28.   

C29.   

C30.   

Provide ground level active uses where 
indicated on Figure F2.9 Primary 
Setbacks.

Residential entries and foyers are 
permitted along active street frontages but 
are not to dominate or compromise the 
commercial viability of the street. 

Where required, active uses must be at 
least 10.0m deep.

A continuous awning is to be provided 
where indicated on Figure F2.9 Primary 
Setbacks, and meet the requirements of 
C5 - C11 of Section F1.2 Building Design 
and Appearance.

Vehicle access points are not permitted 
along active street frontages. Where 
rear or side access is not possible, 
development without parking will be 
considered.

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-148 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY LEGEND 

6m setback from primary setback  

4m setback from primary setback  

8m setback from primary setback  

5m setback from primary setback 

10m setback from primary setback  

Lots with heritage building / item
(setback subject to heritage assessment)

Five Dock Town Centre boundary 

LEGEND 

6m setback from primary setback  

4m setback from primary setback  

8m setback from primary setback  

5m setback from primary setback 

10m setback from primary setback  

Lots with heritage building / item

(setback subject to heritage assessment)

Five Dock Town Centre boundary 

LEGEND 

6m setback from primary setback  

4m setback from primary setback  

8m setback from primary setback  

5m setback from primary setback 

10m setback from primary setback  

Lots with heritage building / item

(setback subject to heritage assessment)

Five Dock Town Centre boundary 

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

SECONDARY SETBACKS

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

Figure F2.10   Secondary (Upper Level) Setbacks 

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

SECONDARY SETBACKS

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

SECONDARY SETBACKS

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-149 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY KINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDGREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVELYONS ROAD BARNSTAPLE RD WATERVIEW STKINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDGREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVELYONS ROAD BARNSTAPLE RD WATERVIEW STKINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDGREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVELYONS ROAD BARNSTAPLE RD WATERVIEW ST 
 
 
Ground floor residential 

Objectives

O21. To ensure residential dwellings on the ground 

level have a high level of amenity and create a 
positive interface with the street. 

Controls 

C31.   

C32.   

C33.   

Residential uses will only be permitted 
on the ground floor within the R3 Medium 
Density Residential zone.

The floor to ceiling height of ground level 
residential is to meet the requirements 
of the “Adaptable” category of Table F-A 
Minimum Floor Heights.

Ground floor private open space on the 
street frontage is to be designed as a 
private terrace a minimum of 0.4m and 
a maximum of 1.0m above the adjacent 
public domain level.

Controls 

C35.   

C36.   

C37.   

Provide new or improved connections as 
identified in Figure F2.8 Public Domain.

Where development may create an isolated 
site, the applicant is required to demonstrate 
negotiations with property owners to include 
the site commenced early, well prior to the 
lodgement of the development application. 
Written evidence of negotiations is to be 
provided, including reasonable offers based 
on independent valuation and that take into 
account expenses likely to be incurred.

Where development may create an isolated 
site, the applicant must demonstrate with a 
schematic design that the isolated site can 
be redeveloped under the current planning 
controls. This must demonstrate the likely 
impacts between the development and 
the isolated site such as solar access, 
separation distances and privacy.

C34.   

Dwellings on the ground floor facing the 
street are to have individual entries from 
the street.

C38.   

Site amalgamation should seek to minimise 
the number of driveway crossings provided 
to the street.

Site amalgamation and isolated sites 

Site amalgamations will result in a more efficient built 
form. This is particularly true of corner sites which could 
be integrated with adjoining land to both maximise 
development potential and also provide enhanced 
amenity for building occupants and for users of public, 
communal and private open space.

Objectives

O22. To encourage site consolidation of allotments for 
development in order to promote the efficient use 
of land. 

O23. To avoid development that may create isolated 

sites.

O24. To support more efficient car parking and servicing 

C40.   

and reduced number of driveways.

O25. To support the provision of new and/or improved 
public spaces as identified in Figure F2.8 Public 
Domain.

C41.   

O26. To avoid the creation of isolated sites that may 

be incapable of being developed in a manner that 
responds to the site’s context and characteristics 
and that maintains a satisfactory level of amenity.

Fine grain frontages 

Objectives

O27. To ensure development of existing small and/or 
narrow lots prevalent in the centre can still occur.

O28. To ensure a diversity of retail shop size.

O29. To encourage narrow frontage, fine grain retail in 

the centre.

Controls 

C39.   

On narrow sites less than 12.0m wide 
alternative methods to address car parking, 
including car share, off site provision and/or 
exemptions are encouraged.

Developments are to create retail frontages 
of less than 8.0m in width or be designed 
so that larger frontages can be divided into 
smaller units in the future.

Reinforce the fine grain of the centre by 
creating smaller shop fronts or by providing 
articulation so that the flexibility exists to 
create narrower shops (5-7m) in the future.

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-150 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

17m

15m

2     S

3

g l e

n

o l a r  A

51   Solar Angle

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

20m*

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

4m 

24m*

17m

15m

10m 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Maximum 

building 

envelope

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

8m 

4m 

24m*

20m*

17m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

15m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Max. building height 

     8.5m

Setback 

4-6m

(varies)

Ground Floor 

Existing

Road Reserve 16.0m  

Waterview Street 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

4m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Maximum 

building height

8.5m

11.5m

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Setback 

0-2m

(varies)

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Existing

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 10-14m

East Street

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

4m

Maximum 

building height

8.5m

11.5m

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Setback 

4.5m

Existing

Ground Floor 

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

g le

n

o la r  A

2     S

3

15m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

51   Solar Angle

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Road Reserve 14.5-16m

Kings Road

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

Setback

6m 

24m*

20m*

17m

15m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

12m (direct sun) 

N E W 

T O W N

S Q U A R E 

11.5m

Town square width 29.0m

New town square 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Setback 

5m 

5m 

17m

15m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 15.0m  

Barnstaple Road

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

Figure F2.11   Built form sections
Road Reserve 24.5m  

Section A 

Interface Waterview Street 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Along Waterview Street 
the street wall height is 
four (4) storeys. Active 
street frontages, providing 
both residential and 
non-residential uses at street 
36
level are encouraged.

Level 3

Level 4

11.5m

2m 

Level 2

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Maximum 
building height
        8.5m

Setback 
2-6m
(varies)

Existing

E A S T  
S T R E E T 

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 10-14m

Section B 

Interface East Street

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

15m

N
O
S
P
M
O
H
T

E
N
A
L

6m

East Street has a landscape 
setback of 0-2.0m. The street 
Max. building depth 
18m 
6m 
wall is three (3) storeys with 
an additional setback of 
4.0m to the fourth (4) storey. 
Residential uses at street 
level are encouraged along 
this street. 

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

Level 2

Level 3

Level 5

Level 4

17m

Ground Floor

Lot Depth ~30m 

Section C 

Interface Kings Road 

Kings Road has a 
landscaped setback of 
4.5m. The street wall 
height is three (3) storeys 
with a maximum building 
height of 15.0m. 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

18m 

6m 

4m 

24m*

20m*

17m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor

Maximum 
building 
envelope

Maximum 
building 
envelope

Level 5

4m 

24m*

4m 

24m*

20m*

4m 

17m

24m*

Level 4

Maximum 
building 
envelope

Level 3

Level 2
Level 5

Maximum 
Ground Floor 
Level 4
building 
envelope

15m

Level 3

Level 5

Level 2

Level 4
Ground Floor 

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Lot Depth ~60m 

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

Level 4

36

11.5m

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

Level 3

Level 2

Maximum 
building height 
     8.5m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Setback 
Lot Depth ~40m 
8m 

R E A R 
L A N E 

Ground Floor 
Existing

6m

B

E

F

D

A

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

20m*

17m
Setback 
8m 

Setback 
8m 

20m*

17m

15m

y
r
a
d
n
u
max 18m 
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

4m 

6m 

15m

24m*

Setback 
4-6m
(varies)

y
r
a
d
n
u
20m*
o
B

17m

Level 5

15m

Road Reserve 16.0m  

Level 4

15m

y
r
a
Setback 
d
n
4-6m
u
o
B
(varies)

Max. building height 
     8.5m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

C

Ground Floor 
Existing
Max. building height 
     8.5m

Waterview Street 

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 16.0m  

Waterview Street 

Ground Floor 
Existing

Max. building height 
     8.5m

Setback 
4-6m
(varies)

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 
Ground Floor 
Existing

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Road Reserve 16.0m  

Waterview Street 

*Level 6 and 7 only where permitted 

Maximum 
building height
8.5m

Maximum 
Existing
building height
8.5m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Setback 
y
r
a
2-6m
d
n
(varies)
u
o
B

Setback 
2-6m
(varies)

Maximum 
building height
8.5m

Existing

15m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

15m

4m

Maximum 
building 
envelope

11.5m

11.5m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

6m 

Setback 
y
r
a
0-2m
d
n
u
(varies)
o
B

Setback 
0-2m
(varies)

4m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

17m

Road Reserve 10-14m

11.5m

Level 5

Level 4

East Street
Setback 
2-6m
(varies)

Setback 
0-2m
(varies)

Level 4

Level 3

15m

Level 2

Maximum 
building 
envelope

Maximum 
building 
envelope

Level 4
Ground Floor 

Level 3

15m
Level 2

4m

Level 4

Ground Floor 

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

15m

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Existing

Road Reserve 10-14m

Level 2

Level 3

East Street

Ground Floor

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Road Reserve 10-14m

East Street

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

11.5m

Setback 
2-6m
(varies)

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Setback 
4.5m
y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

11.5m

Maximum 
building height
8.5m

Maximum 
Existing
building height
8.5m

Setback 
2-6m
(varies)

Maximum 
building height
8.5m

Existing

Road Reserve 14.5-16m

Setback 
4.5m
11.5m

Kings Road

Setback 
2-6m
(varies)

Existing

Road Reserve 14.5-16m

Kings Road

Sping/autumn sun 
(approx) 12pm 

51   Solar Angle

2     S
Sping/autumn sun 
3
(approx) 12pm 

Setback 
4m

Winter sun 
(approx) 12pm 

g le

n

o la r  A

Winter sun 
(approx) 12pm 

Maximum 
building 
envelope

15m

51   Solar Angle

Level 4

g le
Sping/autumn sun 
2     S
(approx) 12pm 

o la r  A

n

3

Setback 
4m

Level 3

Level 2

15m

51   Solar Angle

Level 4
Ground Floor 

Setback 
4m

Level 3

Maximum 
building 
envelope
n
o la r  A

g le

2     S

3

Maximum 
building 
envelope

15m

Winter sun 
(approx) 12pm 

Level 2

Level 4

Ground Floor 

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Setback 
4.5m

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-151 

Road Reserve 10-14m

Road Reserve 14.5-16m

Kings Road

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

5m 

17m

Setback 

5m 

15m

y

r

a

Setback 

d

n

5m 

u

o

B

17m

Level 3

Level 5

N E W 

T O W N

S Q U A R E 

11.5m

5m 

Level 4

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

Setback

6m 

24m*

20m*

4m 

Setback

17m

6m 

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Level 5

24m*

15m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

20m*

4m 

17m

24m*

Setback

6m 

Level 4

Maximum 

building 

Level 3

envelope

Level 2

Level 5

Ground Floor 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Level 5

Level 4

Ground Floor 

Level 3

Level 2

20m*

17m

12m (direct sun) 

N E W 

T O W N

S Q U A R E 

15m

15m

Level 2

Level 5

11.5m

5m 

Setback 

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Level 4

5m 

17m

Level 3

Level 2

15m

Level 5

Town square width 29.0m

12m (direct sun) 

N E W 

T O W N

New town square 

S Q U A R E 

11.5m

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Town square width 29.0m

12m (direct sun) 

New town square 

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Town square width 29.0m

New town square 

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Level 5

Maximum 

Level 4

building 

envelope 

Level 3

Level 2

Level 5

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Ground Floor 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Level 5

Level 4

Ground Floor 

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

17m

4m 

17m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

u

o

B

d

n

20m*

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

4m 

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

24m*

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

17m

Sping/autumn sun 

24m*

4m 

Level 5

(approx) 12pm 

10m 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

20m*

Level 4

Level 3

10m 

4m 

Level 2

Level 5

20m*

Ground Floor 

Level 4

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

17m

24m*

17m

15m

15m

15m

2     S

g l e

n

o l a r  A

3

3

y

r

a

d

o

B

n

15m

u

51   Solar Angle

g l e

n

o l a r  A

4m 

2     S

17m

15m

51   Solar Angle

2     S

g l e

n

o l a r  A

51   Solar Angle

Road Reserve 15.0m  

Barnstaple Road

Road Reserve 15.0m  

Level 5

15m

10m 

Level 3

Level 2

Barnstaple Road

3

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 15.0m  

Barnstaple Road

6m 

4m 

24m*

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

a

d

y

r

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

20m*

17m

6m 

y

r

a

d

n

u

20m*

o

B

17m

15m

15m

18m 

18m 

Level 4

18m 

4m 

Level 5

24m*

6m 

Level 3

4m 

Level 2

24m*

Level 5

20m*

Ground Floor

Level 4

17m

Level 3

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

36

11.5m

Maximum 

building height 

     8.5m

15m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

R E A R 

11.5m

L A N E 

B

36

y

r

a

d

n

u

Maximum 

o

B

Ground Floor 

building height 

Existing

     8.5m

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Maximum 

Level 4

building 

envelope 

Level 3

Level 2

Maximum 

building 

Level 4

envelope 

Level 3

Level 2

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

15m

Level 5

Level 2

Lot Depth ~40m 

Ground Floor

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Lot Depth ~40m 

Ground Floor

15m

11.5m

6m

36

R E A R 

L A N E 

Maximum 

building height 

Ground Floor 

Existing

     8.5m

6m

R E A R 

L A N E 

Ground Floor 

Existing

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Maximum 

building height

        8.5m

Maximum 

Existing

building height

        8.5m

11.5m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

E A S T  

11.5m

S T R E E T 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

6m

max 18m 

Lot Depth ~40m 

max 18m 

4m 

6m 

24m*

20m*

17m

6m 

4m 

Level 5

24m*

Level 4

max 18m 

20m*

15m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

17m

6m 

24m*

15m

Level 3

Level 2

Level 5

Ground Floor 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 5

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Maximum 

Indicative 

building 

envelope

built form 

extent 

15m

15m

Maximum 

Indicative 

building 

built form 

envelope

extent 

15m

Lot Depth ~60m 

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

Lot Depth ~60m 

Lot Depth ~60m 

Maximum 

building height

Existing

        8.5m

Road Reserve 10-14m

11.5m

E A S T  

S T R E E T 

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Level 4

36

Ground Floor 

Level 3

Level 2

2m 

Existing

Road Reserve 10-14m

E A S T  

S T R E E T 

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

20m*

17m

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

15m

Road Reserve 24.5m  

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

*Level 6 and 7 only where permitted 

*Level 6 and 7 only where permitted 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

*Level 6 and 7 only where permitted 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

N O R T H  

G R E A T  

R O A D 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

2m 

2m 

36

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

36

B

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Level 4

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

N

O

S

P

M

H

T

E

N

A

L

O

15m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

N

O

S

P

E

N

M

A

6m

L

O

H

T

6m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

N

O

S

P

M

O

H

T

E

N

A

L

6m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

6m 

17m

6m 

17m

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

15m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

15m

B

Max. building depth 

18m 

Level 5

Max. building depth 

18m 

Level 4

Max. building depth 

Level 3

Level 2

Level 5

18m 

Level 4

Level 3

Lot Depth ~30m 

Level 2

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

Lot Depth ~30m 

Ground Floor

6m 

17m

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

15m

Maximum 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

G R E A T  

building 

envelope 

N O R T H  

R O A D 

Ground Floor

Road Reserve 24.5m  

N O R T H  

G R E A T  

R O A D 

Lot Depth ~30m 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

6m 

17m

6m 

17m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

15m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Level 5

6m 

Ground Floor

Level 4

17m

Level 3

15m

Level 5

Level 2

Ground Floor

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY WestEastLevel 6Level 7ABCDEFGHWestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthNorthSouthEastWestWestEastLevel 6Level 7ABCDEFGHWestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthNorthSouthEastWestWestEastLevel 6Level 7ABCDEFGHWestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthNorthSouthEastWestWestEastLevel 6Level 7ABCDEFGHWestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthNorthSouthEastWest 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

17m

15m

2     S

3

g l e

n

o l a r  A

51   Solar Angle

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

20m*

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

4m 

24m*

17m

15m

10m 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 15.0m  

Barnstaple Road

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

18m 

6m 

4m 

24m*

20m*

17m

15m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

Level 4

36

11.5m

Maximum 

building height 

     8.5m

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

Level 3

Level 2

R E A R 

L A N E 

Ground Floor 

Existing

Lot Depth ~40m 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

2m 

Maximum 

building height

        8.5m

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

11.5m

36

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Existing

E A S T  

S T R E E T 

Ground Floor 

Maximum 

building 

envelope

15m

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

Lot Depth ~60m 

Road Reserve 10-14m

Road Reserve 24.5m  

6m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

6m 

24m*

20m*

17m

15m

max 18m 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

*Level 6 and 7 only where permitted 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Max. building depth 

18m 

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

6m 

17m

15m

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Ground Floor

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

Lot Depth ~30m 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

6m 

17m

15m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

N

O

S

P

M

O

H

T

E

N

A

L

6m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

8m 

4m 

24m*

20m*

17m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

15m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Max. building height 

     8.5m

Setback 

4-6m

(varies)

Ground Floor 

Existing

Road Reserve 16.0m  

Waterview Street 

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Maximum 

building height

8.5m

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

4m 

24m*

Existing

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

20m*

15m

10m 

Level 5

17m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

4m

11.5m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Setback 

0-2m

(varies)

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 10-14m

East Street

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

17m

15m

2     S

3

g l e

n

o l a r  A

51   Solar Angle

Road Reserve 15.0m  

Barnstaple Road

18m 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

6m 

4m 

24m*

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

20m*

Maximum 

building height

24m*

17m

8.5m

4m 

15m

20m*

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

4m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Maximum 

building 

11.5m

envelope 

g le

n

o la r  A

2     S

3

15m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

51   Solar Angle

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Level 4

Level 3

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Level 5

Level 4

Existing
Level 3

Level 2

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

15m

11.5m

Setback 

4.5m

36

Level 2

Maximum 

building height 
     8.5m
Ground Floor 

Ground Floor

Road Reserve 14.5-16m

R E A R 
L A N E 

Ground Floor 
Existing

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

17m

Level 5

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

17m

15m

15m

10m 

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

Level 4

Level 3

3

g l e

n

o l a r  A

2     S

51   Solar Angle

Level 2

Ground Floor 
Road Reserve 24.5m  

Kings Road

Lot Depth ~40m 

Road Reserve 15.0m  

Section D

Barnstaple Road

Interface New Town Square

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

In order to allow for direct 
sunlight in the new town 
square, buildings on the 
north side of the square are 
required to have a three (3) 
storey street wall and a 5m 
11.5m
15m
setback for each level above. 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

36

Setback 
2-6m
(varies)

2m 

Maximum 
building 
envelope

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

6m 

4m 

24m*

20m*

15m
Level 5

17m

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Level 4

Level 5

Level 3

Level 4

Level 2

Level 3

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

4m 

Setback
6m 

18m 

24m*

Maximum 
building 
envelope

20m*

17m

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

Existing

E A S T  
S T R E E T 

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 
Level 2

max 18m 

4m 

6m 

24m*

20m*

17m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Maximum 
15m
building 
envelope 

Level 5

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Level 4

N E W 
T O W N
S Q U A R E 

Level 3

15m

11.5m

11.5m

Maximum 
building height 
     8.5m

Level 4

Level 2

36

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

Level 3

12m (direct sun) 
Level 2

Ground Floor 

6m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

5m 

17m

Setback 
5m 

15m

15m

Winter sun 
(approx) 12pm 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Ground Floor

Lot Depth ~60m 

R E A R 
L A N E 

Ground Floor 
Existing

Lot Depth ~40m 

Town square width 29.0m

New town square 

6m

*Level 6 and 7 only where permitted 

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

Road Reserve 10-14m

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Section E 

Interface Barnstaple Road (West)

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

15m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Max. building depth 
18m 

Along Barnstaple Road to the 
west of the proposed laneway, the 
street wall height on both sides of 
15m
the street is four (4) storeys. The 
upper level setbacks of built form 
to the north facilitates solar access 
to Barnstaple Road. 

11.5m
N
O
S
P
M
O
H
T

36
Indicative 
built form 
extent 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Level 3

Level 5

Level 4

E
N
A
L

2m 

E A S T  
S T R E E T 

6m

Road Reserve 10-14m

max 18m 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

4m 

17m

4m 

6m 

24m*

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

20m*

6m 

17m

17m

Level 5

15m

15m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Sping/autumn sun 
(approx) 12pm 

20m*

15m

10m 

15m

Level 5

4m 

Level 5

Winter sun 
(approx) 12pm 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

24m*

17m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

6m 

Maximum 
building 
17m
envelope

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

15m

Level 5
Maximum 
building 
Level 4
envelope 

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

Section F Barnstaple Road (East) 
Created: 4 March 2018
Revised: 15 March 2018 

Level 3

Level 2

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor

Lot Depth ~30m 

Lot Depth ~60m 

Ground Floor 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

Ground Floor 

3

g l e

n

o l a r  A

2     S

51   Solar Angle

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Level 4

Level 3

Ground Floor

Level 2

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Road Reserve 15.0m  

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Barnstaple Road

*Level 6 and 7 only where permitted 

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Maximum 
building height
        8.5m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

4-6m

(varies)

Max. building height 

     8.5m

Ground Floor 

Existing

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Maximum 
building height
        8.5m

Setback 
2-6m
(varies)

Existing

Maximum 

building 

envelope

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

8m 

4m 

24m*

20m*

17m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

15m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Max. building height 

     8.5m

Setback 

4-6m

(varies)

Ground Floor 

Existing

Road Reserve 16.0m  

Waterview Street 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Setback 

8m 

4m 

24m*

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

20m*

17m

Maximum 

building height

8.5m

15m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

4m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Existing

Max. building height 

     8.5m

Ground Floor 

11.5m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

0-2m

(varies)

Setback 

4-6m

(varies)

Road Reserve 10-14m

Ground Floor 

Existing

East Street

Road Reserve 16.0m  

Waterview Street 

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

51   Solar Angle

g le

n

o la r  A

2     S

3

15m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

Maximum 

building 

Setback 

envelope

4m

Maximum 

building height

8.5m

Maximum 

Setback 

building height

2-6m

8.5m

(varies)

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Existing

Existing

11.5m

Level 4

4m

Setback 

0-2m

(varies)

11.5m

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Setback 

4.5m

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 10-14m

East Street

Road Reserve 14.5-16m

Kings Road

Maximum 

building 

envelope

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

Setback

6m 

24m*

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

20m*

17m

Maximum 

Level 4

building height

Level 5

8.5m

Level 3

Level 2

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Setback 

8m 

4m 

24m*

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

20m*

17m

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

15m

15m

11.5m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

4m

N E W 

T O W N

S Q U A R E 

Setback 

4.5m

51   Solar Angle

g le

n

o la r  A

Level 5

2     S

3

5m 

Setback 

Maximum 

Level 4

5m 

building 

envelope

17m

15m

Level 3

15m

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Level 4

11.5m

Level 3

Level 2

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Existing

12m (direct sun) 

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 16.0m  

Waterview Street 

Road Reserve 14.5-16m

Town square width 29.0m

Kings Road

New town square 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

Setback

6m 

24m*

20m*

17m

15m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

12m (direct sun) 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

5m 

5m 

17m

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

4m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Maximum 

building height

8.5m

11.5m

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Setback 

0-2m

(varies)

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 10-14m

East Street

N E W 

T O W N

S Q U A R E 

11.5m

15m

Level 5

Existing

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

15m

N
O
S
P
M
O
H
T

E
N
A
L

6m

Section F 

Interface Barnstaple Road (East)

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Along Barnstaple Road to the 
Max. building depth 
18m 
6m 
east of the proposed laneway, the 
17m
maximum street wall height on 
the southern side of the street is 
three (3) storeys. 

Level 5

Level 4

15m

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

6m 
6m 

17m

14m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

15m

Ground Floor 

10.5m

Level 5

Setback 
Level 4
6.0m

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

Ground Floor

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Level 3

Level 2

Lot Depth ~30m 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

6m 

4m 

24m*

18m 

20m*

17m

15m

1m deep 
articulation 
zone

Existing 
setback
(varies)

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

Road Reserve 15.0m  

Barnstaple Road

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Maximum 
building height 
Level 5
     8.5m

Level 4

Level 3

Existing
Ground Floor 
Ground Floor 

Level 2

Ground Floor

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

Level 4

36

11.5m

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

Level 3

Level 2

Maximum 

building height 

     8.5m

R E A R 

L A N E 

Ground Floor 

Existing

Lot Depth ~40m 

Town square width 29.0m

New town square 

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-152 

6m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

6m 

24m*

20m*

17m

15m

max 18m 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

*Level 6 and 7 only where permitted 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

4m

Maximum 

building height

8.5m

11.5m

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Setback 

4.5m

Existing

Ground Floor 

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

g le

n

o la r  A

2     S

3

15m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

51   Solar Angle

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Road Reserve 14.5-16m

Kings Road

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

Setback

6m 

24m*

20m*

17m

15m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

12m (direct sun) 

N E W 

T O W N

S Q U A R E 

11.5m

Town square width 29.0m

New town square 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Setback 

5m 

5m 

17m

15m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

2m 

Maximum 

building height

        8.5m

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

11.5m

36

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Existing

E A S T  

S T R E E T 

Ground Floor 

Maximum 

building 

envelope

15m

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

Lot Depth ~60m 

Road Reserve 10-14m

Road Reserve 24.5m  

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Max. building depth 

18m 

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

6m 

17m

15m

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Ground Floor

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

Lot Depth ~30m 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

6m 

17m

15m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

N

O

S

P

M

O

H

T

E

N

A

L

6m

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY WestEastLevel 6Level 7ABCDEFGHWestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthNorthSouthEastWestWestEastLevel 6Level 7ABCDEFGHWestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthNorthSouthEastWestWestEastLevel 6Level 7ABCDEFGHWestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthNorthSouthEastWestWestEastLevel 6Level 7ABCDEFGHWestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthNorthSouthEastWestSouthNorth 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LEGEND 

17m max. street wall height (5 levels) 

15m max. street wall height (4 levels)

14m max. street wall height (4 levels)

11.5m max. street wall height (3 levels) 

10.5m max. street wall height (3 levels) 

8.5m max. street wall height (2 levels)

Lots with heritage building / item (street 
wall height subject to heritage assessment)

Five Dock Town Centre boundary  

LEGEND 

17m max. street wall height (5 levels) 

15m max. street wall height (4 levels)

14m max. street wall height (4 levels)

11.5m max. street wall height (3 levels) 

10.5m max. street wall height (3 levels) 

8.5m max. street wall height (2 levels)

Lots with heritage building / item (street 

wall height subject to heritage assessment)

Five Dock Town Centre boundary  

LEGEND 

17m max. street wall height (5 levels) 

15m max. street wall height (4 levels)

14m max. street wall height (4 levels)

11.5m max. street wall height (3 levels) 

10.5m max. street wall height (3 levels) 

8.5m max. street wall height (2 levels)

Lots with heritage building / item (street 

wall height subject to heritage assessment)

Five Dock Town Centre boundary  

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

STREET WALL HEIGHTS 

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

Figure F2.12   Maximum Street Wall Heights 

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

STREET WALL HEIGHTS 

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

STREET WALL HEIGHTS 

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-153 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY KINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDGREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVELYONS ROAD BARNSTAPLE RD WATERVIEW STKINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDGREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVELYONS ROAD BARNSTAPLE RD WATERVIEW STKINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDGREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVELYONS ROAD BARNSTAPLE RD WATERVIEW ST 
 
 
 
 
 
Build to alignment

Objectives

O30. To encourage a consistent street alignment and 
street wall height along key streets in the centre. 

O31. To ensure corner buildings, located where two 
streets meet, provide a continuous street edge 
and front both streets.

O32. To ensure new buildings provide a well-defined, 
active edge to areas of public open space.

Controls 

C42.   

Building setbacks are to be in accordance 
with Figure F2.9 Primary Setbacks, Figure 
F2.12 Maximum Street Wall Heights and 
Figure F2.14 Example Street Frontage 
Section; and any additional controls set 
out below. 

C43.   

The nil setback applies only to the first 
four (4) storeys of development, unless 
otherwise indicated in Figure F2.10 
Secondary Setbacks. 

Building heights 

Objective

O33. To ensure adequate sunlight is available for all 
buildings, streets and public open spaces.

O34. To ensure the ground floor levels along key 

streets in the centre are appropriate for retail uses 
and that ground levels in the remaining streets are 
adaptable over time to a wide range of uses.

C45.   

C46.   

C47.   

C48.   

C49.   

C50.   

O35. To encourage redevelopment while at the same 

C51.   

time respecting heritage buildings and the “village 
character” of the centre.

C52.   

Controls 

C44.   

Building heights are to be in accordance 
with Figure F2.9 Primary Setbacks, 
Figure F2.10 Secondary Setbacks, Figure 
F2.11 Built form Sections, Figure F2.12 
Maximum Street Wall Heights, Figure 
F2.14 Typical Street Frontage Section and 
Figure F2.15 Maximum Building Height 
Zones; and any additional controls set out 
below. 

Development is to be consistent with the 
minimum floor to ceiling heights for the 
specified uses within the centre shown in 
Table F-A Minimum Floor Heights. 

For development sites to the north of Fred 
Kelly Place and the new town square 
the maximum building height is to be in 
accordance with Figure F2.10 Secondary 
Setbacks and Figure F2.15 Maximum 
Building Height Zones; and no incursions 
(including plant, balcony rails etc.) are to be 
permitted.

The finished floor level of the ground 
floor above the footpath level is to be no 
greater than 1.0 metre for residential uses 
and 0.35 metre for retail and commercial 
uses.

Where active uses are specified on the 
ground floor as identified in Figure F2.9 
Primary Setbacks, the minimum floor 
to ceiling height is to comply with the 
category of “Retail - restaurant/cafe” in 
Table F-A. 

Where active uses are not specified 
on the ground floor, the minimum floor 
to ceiling height is to comply with the 
category of “Retail - general" in Table F-A. 

Building heights are to conform with Table 
F-B Building Heights, which shows the 
relationship between the height of building 
in storeys and the height of the building in 
metres.

New buildings are to have a scale that is 
visually compatible with adjacent buildings 
and heritage items. This may require the 
height of new development to be lower 
than the maximum height permitted.

The upper-most level is to be designed 
to reduce the visual bulk and scale of the 
building. Options to achieve this include 
increased setbacks and/or the use of dark 
colours and roof elements that create 
deep shadows.

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-154 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY Max. building height (large sites only) 

      19m 

      16m 

Max. building height 

Current 

DCP Controls 

Street Wall Height 

14m

E A S T 

S T R E E T 

Setback 

6m 

Street Wall Height 

                 14m

Level 6

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

G R E A T 

N O R T H 

R O A D 

Residential: max building depth 18m  

Commercial: max building depth 25m  

01

G R E A T   N O R T H   R O A D 

02

G R E A T   N O R T H   R O A D 

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Carparking permissible 

Ground Floor 

Proposed 

Footp.

Travel Lanes 

M

Northern Gateway Plaza 

Road Reserve 20-21m  

Existing 

Footp.

Landsc.

Existing Slip-Lane 

Footp.

01

G R E A T   N O R T H   R O A D 

Footp.

P

Travel Lanes 

M

P

Footp.

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Road Reserve 24.5m  

G R E A T   N O R T H   R O A D 

Max. building height

(large sites only) 

       20m

Max. building height 

     17m

Street wall height 

     14m

Built-to 

alignment 

Level 5

Setback 

6m 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Max. building height

(large sites only) 

       20m

Max. building height 

     17m

Street wall height 

     14m

Built-to 

alignment 

Level 5

Setback 

6m 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Footp.

P

Travel Lanes 

M

P

Footp.

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Road Reserve 24.5m  

G R E A T   N O R T H   R O A D 

03

R O D D   R O A D 

Proposed 

Footp.

Travel Lanes 

M

Northern Gateway Plaza 

Road Reserve 20-21m  

Existing 

Footp.

Landsc.

Existing Slip-Lane 

Footp.

02

G R E A T   N O R T H   R O A D 

Footp.

Parking

Travel Lanes 

P

Footp.

Road Reserve 20.0m  

04

R O D D   R O A D   E X T E N S I O N  

03

R O D D   R O A D 

Ped. Lane 

Reserve 5-6m  

05

H E N R Y   S T R E E T 

Footp.

Parking

Travel Lanes 

P

Footp.

Road Reserve 20.0m  

Under construction

04

R O D D   R O A D   E X T E N S I O N  

Proposed 

Cycle 

Travel 

Pocket Park 

Existing 

Travel Lanes 

P

Road Reserve 11.5m  

06

B A R N S T A P L E    R O A D 

Ped. Lane 

Reserve 5-6m  

18m 

Level 5

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

Setback 

4m 

Setback 

6m 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Built-to 

alignment 

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

Ground Floor

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Lot Depth ~40m 

R E A R 

L A N E 

6m

Setback 

6m 

18m 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Built-to 

alignment 

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Indicative

built form 

extent 

Setback 

4m 

Maximum 

2m 

building 

envelope 

18m 

Level 5

E A S T  

S T R E E T 

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

Setback 

4m 

Setback 

6m 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Built-to 

alignment 

Road Reserve 10-14m

Lot Depth ~60m 

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

Ground Floor

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Lot Depth ~40m 

R E A R 

L A N E 

6m

18m 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Indicative

built form 

extent 

Setback 

6m 

Ground Floor

Built-to 

Lot Depth ~30m 

alignment 

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

18m 

S

E

N

A

L

N

O

P

M

O

H

T

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

6m

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Setback 

6m 

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

Built-to 

alignment 

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Indicative

built form 

extent 

Setback 

4m 

2m 

E A S T  

S T R E E T 

Footp.

P

Travel Lanes 

Road Reserve 15.0m  

Road Reserve 10-14m

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Lot Depth ~60m 

Street wall height 

     14m

Setback 

8m

Max. building height 

     8.5m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

b

y

t

r

e

p

o

r

P

Setback 

4-6m

(varies)

05

H E N R Y   S T R E E T 

Proposed 

Footp.

Travel Lanes 

Cycle 

Existing 

Footp.

Travel Lanes 

P

Road Reserve 15.0m  

Under construction

07

S E C O N D   A V E N U E 

Proposed 

Cycle 

Travel 

Pocket Park 

Existing 

Travel Lanes 

P

Road Reserve 11.5m  

Ground Floor 

P

P

Ground Floor 

Existing

06

East

B A R N S T A P L E    R O A D 

Max. building height (large sites only) 

      19m 

Max. building height 

      16m 

Street Wall Height 

     14m

Max. building height (large sites only) 

zone

Level 4

Balcony 

Built-to 

alignment 

      19m 

      16m 

Max. building height 

Setback 

6m 

Level 6

Level 5

Level 3

Current 

DCP Controls 

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Setback 

6m 

Level 6

Level 5

Ground Floor 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Street Wall Height 

                 14m

G R E A T 

N O R T H 

R O A D 

Street Wall Height 

14m

E A S T 

S T R E E T 

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Carparking permissible 

Ground Floor 

Max. building height (large sites only) 

Residential: max building depth 18m  

      19m 

Commercial: max building depth 25m  

Max. building height 

      16m 

Street Wall Height 

     14m

Balcony 

zone

Built-to 

alignment 

g le

n

o la r  A

2 S

3

Setback 

8m 

Level 6

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Max. building height (large sites only) 

      19m 

Max. building height 

      16m 

Street Wall Height 

     14m

Balcony 

zone

Built-to 

alignment 

Plaza Width 29.0m

N E W   T O W N   S Q U A R E 

Setback 

6m 

Level 6

Ground Floor 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Setback 

8m 

Street Wall Height 

14m

Built-to 

alignment 

Balcony 

zone

Max. building 

height 19m 

Setback 

6m 

Level 6

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Max. building height (large sites only) 

      19m 

Max. building height 

      16m 

Street Wall Height 

     14m

Setback 

8m 

Ground Floor 

Level 6

Level 5

Balcony 

zone

Built-to 

alignment 

g le

n

o la r  A

2 S

3

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Road Reserve 24.0m  

F I R S T   A V E N U E 

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Plaza Width 29.0m

N E W   T O W N   S Q U A R E 

Max. building height 

Max. building 

(large sites only) 

height 19m 

      19m 

Level 6

Setback 

6m 

Setback 

8m 

Street Wall Height 

14m

Built-to 

alignment 

Balcony 

zone

Level 5

Max. building height 

      16m 

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 24.0m  

F I R S T   A V E N U E 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

West

Max. building height 

(large sites only) 

      19m 

Max. building height 

      16m 

Road Reserve 16m  

Waterview Street 

Street wall height 

     14m

Setback 

8m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

b

y

t

r

e

p

o

r

P

Max. building height 

        8.5m

Max. building height 

     8.5m

Max. building height 

            14m

Street wall height 

            11m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

b

y

t

r

e

p

o

r

P

Setback 

4-6m

(varies)

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Ground Floor 

Existing

Setback 

4m

Setback 

2m

Ground Floor 

West

P

P

Road Reserve 16m  

Ground Floor 

Existing

Waterview Street 

West

Max. building height 

        8.5m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

b

y

t

r

e

p

o

r

P

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Max. building height 

            14m

Street wall height 

            11m

Setback 

4m

Setback 

2m

Ground Floor 

Existing

West

P

P

Ground Floor 

East

Road Reserve 10-14m (varies) 

East Street 

Proposed 

Parking

Shared Zone 

Existing 

P

Access

Parking

Road Reserve 14.4m  

09

F R E D   K E L L Y   P L A C E  -  N O . 2  ( E A S T E R N   E X T E N S I O N )

S

E

N

A

L

N

O

P

M

O

H

T

6m

East

P

P

Ground Floor 

East

Road Reserve 10-14m (varies) 

East Street 

Footp.

P

Travel Lanes 

Road Reserve 15.0m  

08

S E C O N D   A V E N U E   C A R P A R K / S H A R E D  Z O N E  

Proposed 

Revitalised Central Open Space 

Ped / Cycle Lane 

Existing 

Public Open Space 

Single-storey building

Plaza Width 29.0m 

10

F R E D   K E L L Y   P L A C E  -  R A I S E D   C R O S S I N G 

Proposed 

Parking

Shared Zone 

Existing 

P

Access

Parking

Road Reserve 14.4m  

09

F R E D   K E L L Y   P L A C E  -  N O . 2  ( E A S T E R N   E X T E N S I O N )

Proposed 

Fred Kelly Place 

Footpath 

Raised Ped Crossing

Footpath 

Revitalised Central Open Space 

Existing 

Fred Kelly Place 

Footpath 

Vehicles

M

Vehicles

Footpath 

Public Open Space 

Single-storey building

Road Reserve 24.0m 

11

G A R F I E L D   S T R E E T 

Proposed 

Revitalised Central Open Space 

Ped / Cycle Lane 

Existing 

Public Open Space 

Single-storey building

Plaza Width 29.0m 

10

F R E D   K E L L Y   P L A C E  -  R A I S E D   C R O S S I N G 

Proposed 

Footpath

Travel Lanes 

Footpath

Existing 

Footp.

Taxi

Travel Lanes 

P

Footp.

Road Reserve 20.0m  

12

T H O M P S O N   L A N E 

Proposed 

Fred Kelly Place 

Footpath 

Raised Ped Crossing

Footpath 

Revitalised Central Open Space 

Existing 

Fred Kelly Place 

Footpath 

Vehicles

M

Vehicles

Footpath 

Public Open Space 

Single-storey building

Road Reserve 24.0m 

11

G A R F I E L D   S T R E E T 

Proposed 

Shared Zone 

Existing 

Access Lane 

Reserve 6.4m 

to 12.4m

13

G R E A T   N O R T H   R O A D  

Proposed 

Footpath

Travel Lanes 

Footpath

Existing 

Footp.

Taxi

Travel Lanes 

P

Footp.

Road Reserve 20.0m  

12

T H O M P S O N   L A N E 

Proposed 

Shared Zone 

Existing 

Access Lane 

Reserve 6.4m 

to 12.4m

13

G R E A T   N O R T H   R O A D  

Proposed 

Footpath

Travel Lanes 

Shared Zone / Raised 

Existing 

Footpath

Travel Lanes / Intersection 

Road Reserve 24.0m  

14

F I R S T   A V E N U E 

Proposed 

Footpath

Shared Zone / Bus  

Footpath

Existing 

Footp.

P

Travel Lanes

Bus

Footp.

Road Reserve 24.0m  

Proposed 

Footpath

Travel Lanes 

Shared Zone / Raised 

Existing 

Footpath

Travel Lanes / Intersection 

Road Reserve 24.0m  

14

F I R S T   A V E N U E 

Proposed 

Footpath

Shared Zone / Bus  

Footpath

Existing 

Footp.

P

Travel Lanes

Bus

Footp.

Road Reserve 24.0m  

Table F-B   Building heights 

Building height (in metres)

Building height*

24.0m

20.0m

17.0m

15.0m

11.5m

8.5m

7 storeys

6 storeys

5 storeys 

4 storeys 

3 storeys 

2 storeys

* The number of storeys possible within any maximum building height is dependent on the use (See Fig F2.13 below)

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

3.1m

3.1m

3.1m

3.1m

4.4m

Resi - Level 5

Resi - Level 4

Resi - Level 3

Resi - Level 2

3.6m

Commercial - Level 4

3.6m

Commercial - Level 3

3.6m

Commercial - Level 2

Retail - Ground Floor

4.4m

Retail - Ground Floor

Option: Ground floor retail, upper levels  
residential 

Option: Groud floor retail, upper  
levels commercial 

Figure F2.13   Alternate uses within the building envelope 

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-155 

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

3.6m

Commercial - Level 4

3.6m

Commercial - Level 3

3.6m

Commercial - Level 2

4.4m

Retail - Ground Floor

08

S E C O N D   A V E N U E   C A R P A R K / S H A R E D  Z O N E  

Proposed 

Footp.

Travel Lanes 

Cycle 

Existing 

Footp.

Travel Lanes 

P

Road Reserve 15.0m  

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

18m 

Setback 
6m 

Table F-A   Minimum Floor Heights 

Level 5

07

S E C O N D   A V E N U E 

Indicative
built form 
extent 

Use

Level 4

Level 3
Retail - general

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Approx. floor to floor height in 
metres (min)

3.1m

3.7m

4.4m

3.1m

Resi - Level 5

Resi - Level 4

Retail - restaurant /cafe  4.0m

Level 2

Commercial

Adaptable

Ground Floor

Residential

Community 

Lot Depth ~30m 

3.0m

3.3m

2.7m

3.0m

3.1m

3.1m

3.6m

Resi - Level 2

4.4m
Road Reserve 24.5m  

Retail - Ground Floor

Floor to ceiling height in 
metres (min)

3.1m

Resi - Level 3

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

Built-to 
alignment 

3.3m 

3.6m

3.7m

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY Building Separation (Courtyard)EastSouthWestNorthNorthSouthLevel 6Building Separation (Courtyard)EastSouthWestNorthNorthSouthLevel 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum 

building 

envelope

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

8m 

4m 

24m*

20m*

17m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

15m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Max. building height 

     8.5m

Setback 

4-6m

(varies)

Ground Floor 

Existing

Road Reserve 16.0m  

Waterview Street 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

4m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Maximum 

building height

8.5m

11.5m

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Setback 

0-2m

(varies)

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Existing

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 10-14m

East Street

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

4m

Maximum 

building height

8.5m

11.5m

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Setback 

4.5m

Existing

Ground Floor 

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

g le

n

o la r  A

2     S

3

15m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

51   Solar Angle

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Road Reserve 14.5-16m

Kings Road

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

Setback

6m 

24m*

20m*

17m

15m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

12m (direct sun) 

N E W 

T O W N

S Q U A R E 

11.5m

Town square width 29.0m

New town square 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Setback 

5m 

5m 

17m

15m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

17m

15m

2     S

3

g l e

n

o l a r  A

51   Solar Angle

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

20m*

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

4m 

24m*

17m

15m

10m 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 15.0m  

Barnstaple Road

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

N

O

S

P

M

O

H

T

E

N

A

L

6m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

18m 

6m 

4m 

24m*

20m*

17m

15m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

Level 4

36

11.5m

Maximum 

building height 

     8.5m

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

Level 3

Level 2

R E A R 

L A N E 

Ground Floor 

Existing

Lot Depth ~40m 

6m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

4m 

6m 

24m*

20m*

17m

15m

max 18m 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

2m 

Maximum 

building height

        8.5m

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

11.5m

36

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Existing

E A S T  

S T R E E T 

Ground Floor 

Maximum 

building 

envelope

15m

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

Lot Depth ~60m 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Primary built form 
setback line 

Secondary built form 
setback line

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

Tertiary built form 
setback line

Road Reserve 10-14m

Road Reserve 24.5m  

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Max. building depth 

18m 

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

6m 

17m

15m

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Ground Floor

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

Lot Depth ~30m 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

6m 

17m

15m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor

*Level 6 and 7 only where permitted 

Maximum street wall height 

15m      

0.3m

Building articulation 
zone i.e. sun-control 
louvres, shutters,
balconies, mullions 
and bay windows

* Note: See Figure F2.15 Maximum 

Building Height Zones for selected 

locations where up to 7 levels of 

development may be allowed

Maximum 
building height
24m*      

Setback 
4m 

Level 7*
Residential 

Level 6*
Residential 

Level 5
Residential 

20m*      

Setback varies 
4-10m 

17m      

Level 4
Residential 

Level 3
Residential 

Level 2
Residential 

Ground Floor
Retail or Cafe/Restaurant  

Basement 

Basement 

3.1m

3.1m

3.1m

3.1m

3.1m

3.1m

4.4m

Figure F2.14   Example Street Frontage Section showing maximum potential building height

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-156 

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE DCP

FACADE SECTION 

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

October 2015 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY WestEastLevel 6Level 7ABCDEFGHWestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthNorthSouthEastWest 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LEGEND 

17m maximum building height.

Area where an increase to a maximum 
building height of 24m on sites greater 
than 1,000sq may be possible

15m maximum building height

14m maximum building height

11.5m maximum building height

10.5m maximum building height

8.5m maximum building height

1m articulation zone

Landscaped setback

Lots with heritage building/ item
(development subject to heritage 
assessment) 

Five Dock Town Centre boundary 

LEGEND 

17m maximum building height.

Area where an increase to a maximum 

building height of 24m on sites greater 

than 1,000sq may be possible

15m maximum building height

14m maximum building height

11.5m maximum building height

10.5m maximum building height

8.5m maximum building height

1m articulation zone

Landscaped setback

Lots with heritage building/ item

(development subject to heritage 

assessment) 

Five Dock Town Centre boundary 

LEGEND 

17m maximum building height.

Area where an increase to a maximum 

building height of 24m on sites greater 

than 1,000sq may be possible

15m maximum building height

14m maximum building height

11.5m maximum building height

10.5m maximum building height

8.5m maximum building height

1m articulation zone

Landscaped setback

Lots with heritage building/ item

(development subject to heritage 

assessment) 

Five Dock Town Centre boundary 

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE 

Revised Figure 15 - Maximum Building Heights 

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

Figure F2.15   Maximum Building Height Zones 

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE 

Revised Figure 15 - Maximum Building Heights 

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

N

0

50

100

200m

FIVE DOCK TOWN CENTRE 

Revised Figure 15 - Maximum Building Heights 

Drawing Number

Date 

File location

March 2017

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-157 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY KINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDGREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVELYONS ROAD BARNSTAPLE RD WATERVIEW STKINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDGREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVELYONS ROAD BARNSTAPLE RD WATERVIEW STKINGS RDQUEENS RDGARFIELD STHENRY STSECOND AVENUEEAST STREETINGHAM AVERAMSAY RDHARRABROOK AVEFAIRLIGHT STREET GREAT NORTH RDGREAT NORTH RDBETTS AVEFIRST AVEBENNETT AVERICKARD STNORMAN STILLINOIS RDNEW JERSEY RDLANGSWORTH AVEWANGAL PLINGHAM AVEFIRST AVELYONS ROAD BARNSTAPLE RD WATERVIEW ST 
 
 
Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

17m

15m

2     S

3

g l e

n

o l a r  A

51   Solar Angle

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

20m*

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

4m 

24m*

17m

15m

10m 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 15.0m  

Barnstaple Road

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Level 5

y

r

a

d

o

B

n

Level 4

u

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

15m

2     S

3

g l e

n

o l a r  A

51   Solar Angle

15m

4m 

18m 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

20m*

6m 

15m

10m 

4m 

24m*

Level 5

20m*

Level 4

17m

Level 3

Level 5

Level 2

Level 4

Ground Floor 

Level 3

Level 2

Road Reserve 15.0m  

G R E A T  

N O R T H  

R O A D 

Barnstaple Road

Ground Floor

24m*

17m

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

Level 4

36

11.5m

Maximum 

building height 

     8.5m

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

Level 3

Level 2

R E A R 

L A N E 

Ground Floor 

Existing

Road Reserve 24.5m  

6m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

17m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Lot Depth ~40m 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

6m 

4m 

24m*

18m 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

24m*

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

max 18m 

4m 

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Level 5

Sping/autumn sun 

20m*

4m 

(approx) 12pm 

6m 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

24m*

(approx) 12pm 

10m 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

Level 4

15m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

8m 

4m 

24m*

20m*

17m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

15m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Max. building height 

     8.5m

Setback 

4-6m

(varies)

Ground Floor 

Existing

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Road Reserve 16.0m  

Waterview Street 

o

u

B

y

r

a

d

n

Setback 

8m 

4m 

24m*

20m*

17m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

a

r

y

d

n

u

o

Level 2

B

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Maximum 

building height

8.5m

Ground Floor 

11.5m

Existing

15m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

4m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Setback 

4-6m

(varies)

Setback 

0-2m

(varies)

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Road Reserve 16.0m  

Ground Floor 

Waterview Street 

Max. building height 

     8.5m

Ground Floor 

Existing

Road Reserve 10-14m

East Street

Maximum 

building height

8.5m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

4m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

11.5m

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Setback 

0-2m

(varies)

51   Solar Angle

2     S

3

15m

Level 4

Level 3

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Level 2

g le

n

o la r  A

Ground Floor 

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Maximum 

building 

Maximum 

envelope

building 

envelope

Setback 

8m 

Setback 

Level 5

8m 

4m 

4m 

24m*

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Setback 

8m 

4m 

24m*

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

20m*

17m

24m*

Level 4

20m*

20m*

Level 3

17m

17m

Level 2

Ground Floor 

15m

15m

Level 5

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

15m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

4-6m

(varies)

Ground Floor 

Existing

Max. building height 

     8.5m

Max. building height 

     8.5m

Setback 

Road Reserve 16.0m  

4-6m

Setback 

(varies)

4-6m

Waterview Street 

(varies)

Ground Floor 

Existing

Ground Floor 

Existing

Road Reserve 16.0m  

Road Reserve 16.0m  

Waterview Street 

Waterview Street 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Existing

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

4m

Maximum 

building height

8.5m

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Existing

Road Reserve 10-14m

11.5m

East Street

Level 4

Setback 

4.5m

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Max. building height 

     8.5m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Maximum 

building height

        8.5m

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

11.5m

36

2m 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Existing

E A S T  

S T R E E T 

Ground Floor 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Road Reserve 14.5-16m

Kings Road

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Maximum 

building height

8.5m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m 

Setback

6m 

24m*

20m*

17m

15m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

12m (direct sun) 

Existing

Ground Floor 

N E W 

T O W N

S Q U A R E 

Road Reserve 14.5-16m

11.5m

Kings Road

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

4m

11.5m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

5m 

Setback 

4.5m

5m 

17m

15m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

d

n

u

o

B

Town square width 29.0m

a

New town square 

Setback

4m 

6m 

24m*

20m*

17m

15m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

12m (direct sun) 

N E W 

T O W N

S Q U A R E 

11.5m

Town square width 29.0m

New town square 

Maximum 

building 

envelope

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

15m

4m

Setback 

Maximum 

0-2m

(varies)

building 

Maximum 

envelope

building 

envelope

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Maximum 

building height

8.5m

11.5m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Existing

11.5m

Setback 

y

2-6m

a

r

d

(varies)

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

4m

11.5m

Setback 

0-2m

Setback 

15m

15m

4m

Level 4

Level 3

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

(varies)

0-2m

Road Reserve 10-14m

Level 2

(varies)

East Street

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Maximum 

building height

Maximum 

8.5m

building height

8.5m

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Setback 

2-6m

Setback 

(varies)

2-6m

(varies)

Existing

Existing

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

51   Solar Angle

g le

n

o la r  A

2     S

3

15m

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Road Reserve 10-14m

Road Reserve 10-14m

East Street

East Street

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

o

Sping/autumn sun 

u

(approx) 12pm 

B

Sping/autumn sun 

4m

Setback 

(approx) 12pm 

Sping/autumn sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

51   Solar Angle

g le

n

o la r  A

2     S

3

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

15m

(approx) 12pm 

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Maximum 

building height

8.5m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

51   Solar Angle

11.5m

51   Solar Angle

2     S

3

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Setback 

4m

Setback 

4m

g le

n

o la r  A

g le

n

o la r  A

Level 4

2     S

3

Level 3

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Maximum 

Level 2

building 

15m

envelope

Ground Floor 

Maximum 

building height

Maximum 

8.5m

building height

Existing

11.5m

11.5m

8.5m

Winter sun 

Setback 

(approx) 12pm 

2-6m

(varies)

Setback 

2-6m

(varies)

Existing

Existing

Road Reserve 14.5-16m

Setback 

4.5m

Setback 

4.5m

Kings Road

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Setback 

15m

4.5m

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Setback 

5m 

5m 

17m

15m

Level 5

Road Reserve 14.5-16m

Road Reserve 14.5-16m

Kings Road

Kings Road

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Maximum 

building 

envelope

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

4m 

Setback

6m 

24m*

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

20m*

17m

Maximum 

building 

Ground Floor 

Maximum 

Ground Floor 

4m 

envelope

building 

envelope

Setback

6m 

Setback

Level 5

6m 

4m 

24m*

24m*

Level 4

20m*

20m*

Level 3

17m

Level 2

17m

15m

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

N E W 

T O W N

S Q U A R E 

11.5m

5m 

5m 

Setback 

5m 

Setback 

17m

5m 

5m 

Setback 

5m 

Winter sun 

17m

(approx) 12pm 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Level 5

15m

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Level 5

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Level 5

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

15m

15m

Ground Floor 

12m (direct sun) 

15m

15m

N E W 

T O W N

S Q U A R E 

N E W 

T O W N

S Q U A R E 

11.5m

11.5m

Town square width 29.0m

Ground Floor 

12m (direct sun) 

12m (direct sun) 

New town square 

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

17m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Town square width 29.0m

Town square width 29.0m

New town square 

New town square 

Existing

Indicative 

built form 

extent 

15m

N

O

S

P

M

O

H

T

E

N

A

L

6m

Maximum 

building height

        8.5m

11.5m

Setback 
2-6m
(varies)

Max. building depth 
18m 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

E A S T  
S T R E E T 

Level 5

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

15m

N
O
S
P
M
O
H
T

E
N
A
L

6m

Road Reserve 10-14m

Level 4

Road Reserve 10-14m

Figure F2.16   Building envelope sections 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Maximum 
building 
envelope

15m

15m

20m*

y

r

a

d

n

u

17m

B

o

4m 

17m

15m

g l e

n

15m

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

15m

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

y

r

a

Level 5

d

n
u
o
B
Maximum 
Level 4
4m 
building 
envelope
Level 3
17m

4m 

y

r

a
d
n
u
o
B

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

15m

Level 5

Level 5

Level 4

Level 4

Level 3

Level 3

Level 2

Level 2

17m

15m

Ground Floor 

2     S
3
Indicative 
3
built form 
extent 

Road Reserve 24.5m  
Level 2

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

15m
n

o l a r  A
2     S

g l e
o l a r  A

51   Solar Angle
51   Solar Angle

Road Reserve 15.0m  

Road Reserve 15.0m  

Lot Depth ~60m 

Barnstaple Road

Barnstaple Road

n

g l e
Level 3

o l a r  A

4m 

2     S

20m*
3

4m 

Level 4

24m*

Level 5
20m*
Indicative 
24m*
built form 
extent 
17m

Level 2

10m 

20m*

51   Solar Angle

Level 5
10m 
Ground Floor

Level 5

Level 4

Level 4
Level 4

Level 3

17m

Level 2

17m

Level 5

Ground Floor 

y

r

a

d

n

B

Maximum 

o

u

building height 

     8.5m

Level 4

36

11.5m

17m

Level 3

Level 2

15m

R E A R 
L A N E 

Ground Floor 
Existing

Lot Depth ~40m 

Level 3

Level 3
Level 3
Road Reserve 15.0m  

Level 2
Barnstaple Road
Ground Floor 

Level 2
Level 2

Ground Floor 
Ground Floor 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

6m 

4m 

24m*
max 18m 
20m*
18m 

17m

18m 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B
6m 

4m 

15m

6m 
24m*

4m 

24m*

20m*

17m

20m*

17m

15m
G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

Level 5

Level 5

Level 4

Level 5

Ground Floor

Level 4

Level 3

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Level 3

Level 2

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

Ground Floor

Level 2

Ground Floor

Ground Floor 

Lot Depth ~40m 

Lot Depth ~40m 

6m

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

18m 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

6m 

4m 

24m*

*Level 6 and 7 only where permitted 

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

20m*

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Maximum 
17m
building 
envelope 

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

15m

11.5m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Level 4

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B
Level 3

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

36

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Level 2

15m

15m

15m

Level 4

36

Level 4

Level 3

11.5m

36

11.5m

R E A R 
L A N E 

Maximum 
building height 
     8.5m

Maximum 
building height 
     8.5m

Lot Depth ~40m 
Level 2

Level 3

Level 2

max 18m 

R E A R 
L A N E 

R E A R 
L A N E 

6m

6m

6m

Ground Floor 
Existing

Ground Floor 
Existing
G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

4m 
Road Reserve 24.5m  

6m 

24m*

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

H

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Maximum 
building height 
     8.5m

Ground Floor 
Existing

G

K

J

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

4m 

6m 

4m 

24m*

Level 5

6m 

24m*

Level 4
20m*

20m*

Level 3
17m

17m

Level 2

Ground Floor 

15m

15m

20m*

*Level 6 and 7 only where permitted 

17m

15m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Maximum 
building 
envelope

max 18m 

max 18m 

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

Level 5

Level 5

Level 4

Level 4

Level 3
Lot Depth ~60m 

Level 3

Level 2

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

6m 

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Road Reserve 24.5m  

*Level 6 and 7 only where permitted 

*Level 6 and 7 only where permitted 

*Level 6 and 7 only where permitted 

36

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

2m 

6m 

17m

Section G

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

15m

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Indicative 
built form 
extent 
y
Road Reserve 24.5m  
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

6m 

17m

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Road Reserve 24.5m  

15m

Lot Depth ~60m 

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor

Lot Depth ~30m 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
Setback 
B
2-6m
(varies)

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Maximum 
building height
        8.5m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

11.5m

36

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

15m

Ground Floor

Level 4

Level 3

Maximum 
building 
envelope

Maximum 
building 
envelope

Road Reserve 24.5m  

2m 

15m

Level 2
15m

Maximum 
building height
        8.5m

Maximum 
building height
        8.5m

Setback 
2-6m
(varies)

Setback 
2-6m
(varies)

Existing

11.5m

11.5m

36

E A S T  
S T R E E T 

Level 4

36

Level 4

Level 3

Level 3

Ground Floor 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

2m 

2m 

Level 2
Road Reserve 10-14m

Level 2

Max. building depth 
Existing
18m 
Existing

E A S T  
S T R E E T 

6m 

E A S T  
S T R E E T 

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

17m

Road Reserve 10-14m

Level 5

Road Reserve 10-14m

15m

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Lot Depth ~60m 

Lot Depth ~60m 

17m

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

Section H

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Ground Floor

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

15m

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Max. building depth 
18m 

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

Lot Depth ~30m 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

15m

N
O
S
P
M
O
H
T

E
N
A
L

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

15m

N
O
S
P
M
O
H
T

E
N
A
L

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

N
O
S
P
M
O
H
T

Max. building depth 
18m 
Max. building depth 
18m 
Indicative 
built form 
extent 

E
N
A
L

Indicative 
built form 
extent 

6m
Indicative 
built form 
extent 

Level 5

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

6m 

Level 4
Road Reserve 24.5m  
6m 
Level 3

17m

17m
Level 2

15m

15m
Ground Floor
Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Level 5

Level 5

Level 4

Level 4

Level 3

Level 3

Lot Depth ~30m 

Level 2

Level 2

Ground Floor

Ground Floor

15m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

6m 

17m

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor

15m

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
6m 
B

15m

17m

6m 

17m

G R E A T  
15m
N O R T H  
R O A D 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

6m 

17m

15m

Level 5

Level 5

Level 4

Level 4

Level 3

Level 3

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor

Section J

6m

6m

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Maximum 
building height
15m

Lot Depth ~30m 

Lot Depth ~30m 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

6m 

17m

15m

18m 

Level 5

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

G R E A T   N O R T H
R O A D

Ground Floor 

Road Reserve 24m  

Section K

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

G R E A T  
N O R T H  
R O A D 

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Level 2

Level 2

Ground Floor

Ground Floor

Road Reserve 24.5m  

Road Reserve 24.5m  

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
b

r
a
e
R

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

15m

Maximum 
building 
envelope

Indicative 
built form

14m

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

F U T U R E 
L A N E W A Y

6-9m  

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

6m 

Setback 
6m 

10.5m

Maximum 
building height 
     8.5m

1m deep 
articulation 
zone

W A T E R V I E W 
S T R E E T

Existing 
setback
(4-8m)

Existing
Ground Floor 
Ground Floor 

Road Reserve ~15.3m  

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-158 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY WestEastLevel 6Level 7ABCDEFGHWestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthNorthSouthEastWestWestEastLevel 6Level 7ABCDEFGHWestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthNorthSouthEastWestWestEastLevel 6Level 7ABCDEFGHWestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthNorthSouthEastWestWestEastLevel 6Level 7ABCDEFGHWestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthNorthSouthEastWestWestEastLevel 6Level 7ABCDEFGHWestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7WestEastLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthLevel 6Level 7SouthNorthNorthSouthEastWestWestEast 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Facades

Objectives

O36. Buildings are to provide facade articulation 

and variation to reduce visual bulk and create 
shadows and texture along the facade. This can 
include variations in window and/or balcony size 
and treatment, a design with a well-defined base, 
middle and top, the use of horizontal and/or 
vertical elements and variations in setback.

Controls 

C53.   

C54.   

C55.   

C56.   

Balconies are to support a balance 
of solid and void treatment in the 
composition of the facade. A facade which 
is dominated by a repetitive balcony 
design is to be avoided. 

External walls are to include variations 
in colour and the types of materials used 
in order to articulate different parts of a 
building facade and reduce the overall 
bulk and scale.

External walls are to be constructed of 
high quality and durable materials and 
finishes with ‘self-cleaning’ attributes such 
as face brickwork, rendered brickwork, 
stone, concrete and glass. Materials and 
finishes with high maintenance costs, 
and those susceptible to degradation or 
corrosion are to be avoided.

A 1m deep facade 'articulation zone' for 
architectural expression and elements 
(e.g. balconies) is permitted within the 
primary setback zone along Waterview 
Street and Barnstaple Road as identified 
in Figure F2.15 Maximum Building Height 
Zones. The maximum length of straight 
wall, without articulation such as a 
balcony or return, is 8m. 

Example of balconies with a balance of solid and void in 
the facade composition and treatment

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-159 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY Heritage

Objective

O37. To protect buildings and spaces of heritage 

significance.

O38. To ensure that new development on the same 
site as or adjacent to a heritage item responds 
sensitively to its heritage significance.

Controls 

C57.   

New buildings on the same site as or 
adjoining a heritage item will need to 
consider the impact on heritage when 
determining: 

•  the appropriate alignment and street  

frontage heights; 

•  setbacks above street frontage heights; 

•  appropriate materials and finishes  

selection; 

•  the design and articulation of the      

facade; and 

•  appropriate side and rear setbacks.

Prior to the demolition of the former 
heritage item at 39 Waterview Street, Five 
Dock (Lot 11 DP 869673), an archival 
record is to be prepared and submitted to 
Council.

Once demolition has been completed, a 
Baseline Archaeological Assessment on 
the entire site is to be submitted.

C58.   

The composition of the facade of the new building on the 
right considers the adjoining a heritage item on the left.

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-160 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY F2.3  Majors Bay Road Shopping 

C3. 

Centre, Concord

Majors Bay Road Shopping Centre is a linear shopping 
centre with a strong boulevard quality. The street is 
well orientated for vistas and was laid out with the 
subdivisions of the surrounding estates for residential 
purposes between 1900-1915. The buildings within 
the centre, whilst not being particularly historic or 
architecturally impressive in themselves, impart a 
unified streetscape by virtue of their two storey scale 
and architectural styles. These elements convey a 
sense of history and continuity, form part of Canada 
Bay’s cultural heritage, and provide a sense of identity 
to the shopping centre. The scale of the buildings also 
relates well to the surrounding low rise character of 
Concord.

The height of buildings is an important visual element 
in the streetscape and represents one of the more 
important facets of development control in the shopping 
centre. Most buildings in the Majors Bay Road shopping 
centre are two (2) storeys high and constructed with a 
flat, pitched or parapet-type roof. Roof forms on new 
buildings should be sympathetic to adjoining buildings 
and materials should be selected so as to blend 
with the surrounding environment.The design of the 
developments should attempt to ensure that where 
adjoining buildings, particularly residential dwellings, are 
located in close proximity to new commercial buildings, 
the design of such projects should attempt to minimise 
any potential loss of sunlight or daylight to residences. 

Refer to Figure F2.17.

Controls

Height

C1. 

C2. 

All new work (including extensions to 
buildings) should not exceed a maximum 
height of 11.0 metres.

Where buildings display a uniform 
height at the front street alignment, 
new development should maintain a 
complementary height relationship with 
adjoining development. In this regard, 
any upper floor additions should be 
confined to the rear, either out of sight or 
setback far enough from the front building 
alignment so as to reduce its visibility and 
prominence from the shopping street.

Buildings are to step down at the rear, 
to a maximum external wall height of 7.5 
metres, to be compatible with the scale 
and character of adjacent residential 
areas and in keeping with the built form 
pattern of retail streets.

Refer to Figure F2.18.

Where new buildings are erected within 
established frontages, such buildings 
should, at least along the main street 
frontage, be similarly orientated to 
existing adjoining buildings.

Siting

C4. 

Front setbacks

C5. 

New development should be built to the 
predominant setback, generally the front 
alignment.

Roof forms

C6. 

C7. 

C8. 

The style and pitch of new roofs should 
relate sympathetically to neighbouring 
buildings where possible.

Materials used in the construction of roofs 
should be selected so as to blend in and 
harmonise with both the subject building, 
adjoining properties, and the streetscape 
generally.

Structures such as ventilation shafts, lift 
towers etc., should not project above the 
roof line or disturb the symmetry of the 
roofscape of buildings.

Vehicular access/crossings 

C9. 

C10.   

New vehicular access ways across public 
footpaths within the shopping centre will 
not generally be permitted.

Where rear lane access and/or parking 
facilities are provided to properties, 
Council will request owners (either by 
co-operation or via conditions attached 
to development applications) to close 
existing front vehicular access ways.

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-161 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Council area map 

Rear setback to be 
compatible with adjacent 
residential dwellings 

Minimum rear 

boundary setback 
6m 

m
0
.
1
1

m
5
.
7

Y
R
A
D
N
U
O
B

R
A
E
R

N

Rear setback to be 
compatible with adjacent 
residential dwellings 

Minimum rear 

boundary setback 
6m 

Y
R
A
D
N
U
O
B

R
A
E
R

m
0
.
1
1

m
5
.
7

Third story to be within the central 
portion of the site (out of line of sight)

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Parapet/roof form to 
relate to neighbouring 
buildings 

Continuous 
cantilevered 
awning 

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Figure F2.17   Majors Bay Shopping Centre - Location Plan

V I C T O R I A 
A V E N TU E 

Third story to be within the central 
portion of the site (out of line of sight)

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Parapet/roof form to 
relate to neighbouring 
buildings 

Continuous 
cantilevered 
awning 

M A J O R S   B A Y 
R O A D 

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Figure F2.18   Majors Bay Shopping Centre - Maximum Building Envelope Section

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-162 

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Minimum setback 

1/3 of site depth 

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Cantilevered 

awning at 

entrances

F O R M O S A  

S T R E E T 

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Level 3

Level 2

Level 3

30 

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Parapet edge

Cantilevered 

awning at 

entrances

V I C T O R I A   

R O A D 

Parapet edge

Continuous 

cantilevered awning 

where applicable

V I C T O R I A   

R O A D 

Minimum setback 

1/4 of site depth 

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Level 4

Level 3

Parapet edge

Continuous 

cantilevered awning 

where applicable

V I C T O R I A    R O A D / 

LY O N S   R O A D  

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Minimum setback 

1/4 of site depth 

Parapet edge

Level 2

Ground Floor 

W R I G H T S   

R O A D 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
F3 Local Neighbourhood Shops

There are other scattered retail and commercial areas 
that provide local neighbourhood goods and services 
outside the main retail nodes of Great North Road, 
Majors Bay Road, Victoria Avenue and Victoria Road.

The general planning, design and environmental 
management controls outlined in Section F1.1, F1.2, 
F1.3, F1.4, F1.5, F1.6, F1.7 apply in these areas 
to ensure the form and scale of development is 
appropriate.

F3.1  Victoria Avenue Shopping 
Centre, Concord West 

Most buildings in the shopping centre are one (1) to 
two (2) storeys in height and are constructed with flat, 
pitched or parapet type roofs.

There is a shortage of car parking in the centre which 
was designed and constructed before the advent of 
mass car ownership. The rear building line is intended 
to reserve parts of lots for future parking and loading 
areas accessed from rear service roads and to prevent 
such areas being “built out”. This building line applies to 
both new and existing buildings.

Refer to Figure F2.19. 

Controls

Floor space ratio 

C1. 

The residential component of buildings is 
not to exceed 50% of the total gross floor 
area.

Front setbacks 

C2. 

New development or extensions to 
existing buildings should be built to the 
predominant setback, generally the front 
alignment.

Rear setbacks

C3. 

New development or extensions to 
existing buildings should be built a 
minimum of six (6) metres from the rear 
boundary. 

Building height

C4. 

C5. 

Where buildings display a uniform 
height at the front street alignment, 
new development should maintain a 
complementary height relationship with 
adjoining development. In this regard, 
any upper floor additions should be 
confined to the rear, either out of sight or 
setback far enough from the front building 
alignment so as to reduce its visibility and 
prominence from the shopping street.

Buildings are to step down at the rear, 
to a maximum external wall height of 7.5 
metres, to be compatible with the scale 
and character of adjacent residential 
areas and in keeping with the built form 
pattern of retail streets.

Refer to Figure F2.20.

Building design

C6. 

The design of new buildings should 
respect the existing built form of the 
shopping centre. New buildings, 
particularly those which “infill” between 
existing properties, should respect the 
scale, roof forms and proportions of 
adjoining buildings. This means that new 
buildings should attempt to “fit in”.

Vehicular access/crossing

C7. 

C8. 

New vehicular access ways across public 
footpaths within the shopping centre will 
not generally be permitted.

Where rear lane access and/or parking 
facilities are provided to properties, 
Council will request owners (either by 
co-operation or via conditions attached 
to development applications) to close 
existing vehicular access ways. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-163 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Council area map 

Figure F2.19   Victoria Avenue Shopping Centre - Location Plan

N

Third story to be within the central 
portion of the site (out of line of sight)

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Rear setback to be 
compatible with adjacent 
residential dwellings 

Minimum rear 

boundary setback 
6m 

Y
R
A
D
N
U
O
B

R
A
E
R

m
0
.
1
1

m
5
.
7

Parapet/roof form to 
relate to neighbouring 
buildings 

Continuous 
cantilevered 
awning 

V I C T O R I A 
A V E N TU E 

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Figure F2.20   Victoria Avenue Shopping Centre - Maximum Building Envelope Section

Third story to be within the central 
portion of the site (out of line of sight)

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Level 4

Level 3

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Parapet/roof form to 
relate to neighbouring 
buildings 

Continuous 

cantilevered 

awning 

M A J O R S   B A Y 

R O A D 

Parapet edge

Cantilevered 

awning at 

entrances

V I C T O R I A   

R O A D 

Parapet edge

Continuous 

cantilevered awning 

where applicable

V I C T O R I A   

R O A D 

Maximum 
building 
envelope 

Rear setback to be 
compatible with adjacent 
residential dwellings 

Minimum rear 

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-164 

boundary setback 
6m 

Y
R
A

D

N

U

O

B

R

A

E

R

m

0

.

1

1

m

5

.

7

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Minimum setback 

1/3 of site depth 

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Cantilevered 

awning at 

entrances

F O R M O S A  

S T R E E T 

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Level 3

Level 2

Level 3

30 

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Ground Floor 

Minimum setback 

1/4 of site depth 

Level 2

Ground Floor 

Level 4

Level 3

Parapet edge

Continuous 

cantilevered awning 

where applicable

V I C T O R I A    R O A D / 

LY O N S   R O A D  

Maximum 

building 

envelope 

Minimum setback 

1/4 of site depth 

Parapet edge

Level 2

Ground Floor 

W R I G H T S   

R O A D 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
F3.2  355-359 Lyons Road, Five 

Dock

The land at 355 – 359 Lyons Road is part of a 
small cluster of shops that are surrounded by a 
predominantly residential area. The general planning 
controls outlined below apply in these areas to ensure 
the form and scale of development responds to the 
surrounding context and achieves an integrated urban 
design outcome for all properties between 355 and 359 
Lyons Road.

Objectives

O1.  To achieve a coordinated urban design outcome.

O2.  To enhance the existing streetscape and ensure 

appropriate development scale and interface near 
residential areas.

O3.  To minimise solar access and privacy impacts 

upon surrounding properties.

O4.  To ensure future buildings provide a continuous 

street edge to Lyons Road.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

C4. 

C5. 

Buildings are to be constructed to the 
front boundary (street edge) on Lyons 
Road.

A continuous awning is to be provided on 
the Lyons Road frontage of the site and 
wrap around into Ingham Avenue.

Buildings are to adhere to the minimum 
separation requirements of the Apartment 
Design Guide.

The maximum building height is 3 
storeys.

A two (2) storey street edge is to be 
provided to Lyons Road and Ingham 
Avenue and the third floor is to have an 
upper level setback of 3.0 metres from 
both of these streets and a solid 'parapet 
style' balustrade for the upper floor.  

C6. 

C7. 

The building envelope is the three 
dimensional volume that defines the 
outermost part of the site that buildings 
may occupy. Proposed buildings will also 
need to demonstrate that solar access 
is maintained to the north facing window 
and private open spaces of surrounding 
properties.

The third storey element of the building 
is to have a roof design and material 
selection that assists in minimising the 
overall bulk and scale of the building.

Example of an increased setback to the upper floor and 
a solid parapet balustrade that helps the building to 'read' 
as a two storey building from the street. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-165 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure F3.1   Consolidated development controls plan 

LEGEND

1 level max. building height 

2 level max. building height 

3 level max. building height

Nil setback to boundary

3m min. setback to boundary

6m min. setback to boundary

Awning required

Cadastre

Site boundary 

E
U
N
E
V
A

M
A
H
G
N

I

N

LEGEND

N

1 level max. building height 

2 level max. building height 

3 level max. building height

Nil setback to boundary

3m min. setback to boundary

6m min. setback to boundary

Awning required

Cadastre

Site boundary 

DRAFT

Council area map 

L Y O N S       R O A D  

N il

  L e v e l s

  2  

6 m  

3 m  

3

m

l
i

N

1

5

m

 3  Levels
Max. building height

Residential 
non-habitable only 
unless minimum 6m 
setback from side 
boundary 

 2  Levels

1  Level

3m 

11m 

6
m

6
m

2

L

e

v

e

l

s

6 m  

6
m

N

DRAFT

Drawing Number

151201_LyonsRd_DevControls_Plan.ai

Date 

1 December 2015 

File location

Studio GL Team Folder\1540_Lyons Road\04_CAD 3D Graphics

355-359 LYONS ROAD  

DEVELOPMENT CONTROLS - PLAN  

L Y O N S       R O A D  

N il

  L e v e l s

  2  

6 m  

3 m  

3

m

l
i

N

1

5

m

 3  Levels
Max. building height

Residential 
non-habitable only 
unless minimum 6m 
setback from side 
boundary 

3m 

11m 

6
m

6
m

2

L

e

v

e

l

s

 2  Levels

1  Level

6 m  
Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-166 

6
m

E
U
N
E
V
A

M

A

H

G

N

I

N

355-359 LYONS ROAD  

DEVELOPMENT CONTROLS - PLAN  

Drawing Number

151201_LyonsRd_DevControls_Plan.ai

Date 

1 December 2015 

File location

Studio GL Team Folder\1540_Lyons Road\04_CAD 3D Graphics

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY 355357359355357359 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF CANADA BAY 

Development Control Plan 

Part 7      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centres

LEGEND

1 level max. building height 

2 level max. building height 

3 level max. building height

3m min. setback to boundary

6m min. setback to boundary

Awning required

Cadastre

Site boundary 

01

Section 01 - 01
Figure F3.2  
Interface Lyons Road  

Interface sections

Section 01  Interface Lyons Road 

02

04

03

Section 02 - 02

Interface Ingham Avenue  

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Max. building 
height 8.5m 

Nil setback
(built-to alignment)
Awning required

Existing

LYONS ROAD 

N

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

3m

355-359 LYONS ROAD  

DEVELOPMENT CONTROLS - PLAN  

Drawing Number

151201_LyonsRd_DevControls_Plan.ai

Date 

1 December 2015 

File location

Studio GL Team Folder\1540_Lyons Road\04_CAD 3D Graphics

Max. building
height 11.0m

3rd Storey

2nd Storey

Ground Floor 

Section 02 - 02
Interface Ingham Avenue  

North

Road reserve approx. 20m

South

DRAFT

Section 02  Interface Ingham Avenue

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Section 03 - 03
Interface Southern Boundary 

Max. building 
height 8.5m 

Existing

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

3m

Nil setback
(built-to alignment)

Awning required

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
b

INGHAM AVE

e
d
S

i

West

Road reserve approx. 18m

Min. setback
6m

Max. building 
height 8.5m 

East

3rd Level

2nd Level

Existing

Min. setback
6m

Ground Level

Section 04 - 04

Interface Eastern Boundary

Max. building
height 11.0m

3rd Level

2nd Level

Winter sun 
(approx) 12pm 

Ground Level

Max. building
height 11.0m

Section 01 - 01

Interface Lyons Road  

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Max. building 

height 8.5m 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

3m

Max. building

height 11.0m

3rd Storey

2nd Storey

Ground Floor 

Nil setback

(built-to alignment)

Awning required

Existing

LYONS ROAD 

North

Road reserve approx. 20m

South

Section 03 - 03

Interface Southern Boundary 

Section 04 - 04
Interface Eastern Boundary

South

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-167 

North

West

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

b

e

d

i

S

Max. building 

height 8.5m 

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Min. setback

6m

Max. building

height 11.0m

3rd Level

2nd Level

Existing

Min. setback

6m

Ground Level

South

North

West

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

b

e

d

i

S

3m

Max. building

height 11.0m

3m

3rd Storey

2nd Storey

Ground Floor 

Max. building 

N

height 8.5m 

Level 3

Level 2

Existing

Ground Floor 

East

N

355-359 LYONS ROAD  

DEVELOPMENT CONTROLS - SECTIONS

File name 

151201_LyonsRd_DevControls_Sections.ai

Date 

2 December 2015 

File location

Studio GL Team Folder\1540_Lyons Road\04_CAD 3D Graphics

DRAFT

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

3m

Max. building

height 11.0m

3rd Level

2nd Level

Ground Level

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Max. building 

height 8.5m 

Nil setback

(built-to alignment)

Awning required

Existing

INGHAM AVE

West

Road reserve approx. 18m

East

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

b

e

d

i

S

3m

Max. building

height 11.0m

3m

3rd Storey

2nd Storey

Ground Floor 

Max. building 

height 8.5m 

Level 3

Level 2

Existing

Ground Floor 

East

355-359 LYONS ROAD  

DEVELOPMENT CONTROLS - SECTIONS

File name 

151201_LyonsRd_DevControls_Sections.ai

Date 

2 December 2015 

File location

Studio GL Team Folder\1540_Lyons Road\04_CAD 3D Graphics

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 01 - 01

Interface Lyons Road  

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Max. building 

height 8.5m 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

3m

Max. building

height 11.0m

3rd Storey

2nd Storey

Ground Floor 

Nil setback

(built-to alignment)

Awning required

Existing

LYONS ROAD 

Section 02 - 02
Interface Ingham Avenue  

North

Road reserve approx. 20m

South

DRAFT

Section 03 - 03
Interface Southern Boundary 

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

Section 03  Interface Southern Boundary

Max. building 
height 8.5m 

Nil setback
(built-to alignment)

Awning required

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
b

Existing

West

Max. building 
height 8.5m 

e
d
S

i

INGHAM AVE

Road reserve approx. 18m

Min. setback
6m

East

3rd Level

2nd Level

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
B

3m

Max. building
height 11.0m

3rd Level

Winter sun 
(approx) 12pm 

2nd Level

Ground Level

Max. building
height 11.0m

Section 01 - 01

Interface Lyons Road  

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Max. building 

height 8.5m 

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

3m

Max. building

height 11.0m

3rd Storey

2nd Storey

Ground Floor 

Nil setback

(built-to alignment)

Awning required

Existing

LYONS ROAD 

North

Road reserve approx. 20m

South

Section 03 - 03

Interface Southern Boundary 

Section 04 - 04
Interface Eastern Boundary

South

North

West

Existing

Min. setback
6m

Ground Level

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

b

e

d

i

S

Max. building 

height 8.5m 

Min. setback

6m

Max. building

height 11.0m

3rd Level

2nd Level

Existing

Min. setback

6m

Ground Level

Winter sun 

(approx) 12pm 

Section 04  Interface Eastern Boundary

Max. building
height 11.0m

3m

3rd Storey

2nd Storey

Ground Floor 

South

North

West

y
r
a
d
n
u
o
b
e
d
S

i

3m

N

Max. building 
height 8.5m 

Level 3

Level 2

Existing

Ground Floor 

East

N

355-359 LYONS ROAD  

DEVELOPMENT CONTROLS - SECTIONS

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-168 

File name 

151201_LyonsRd_DevControls_Sections.ai

Date 

2 December 2015 

File location

Studio GL Team Folder\1540_Lyons Road\04_CAD 3D Graphics

DRAFT

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

3m

Max. building

height 11.0m

3rd Level

2nd Level

Ground Level

Nil setback

(built-to alignment)

Awning required

Existing

INGHAM AVE

West

Road reserve approx. 18m

East

Section 02 - 02

Interface Ingham Avenue  

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

B

Max. building 

height 8.5m 

Section 04 - 04

Interface Eastern Boundary

y

r

a

d

n

u

o

b

e

d

i

S

3m

Max. building

height 11.0m

3m

3rd Storey

2nd Storey

Ground Floor 

Max. building 

height 8.5m 

Level 3

Level 2

Existing

Ground Floor 

East

355-359 LYONS ROAD  

DEVELOPMENT CONTROLS - SECTIONS

File name 

151201_LyonsRd_DevControls_Sections.ai

Date 

2 December 2015 

File location

Studio GL Team Folder\1540_Lyons Road\04_CAD 3D Graphics

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS PAGE WAS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

Canada Bay DCP - Part F             ########PageF-169 

Development Control Plan Part F      Mixed use areas and neighbourhood centresCITY OF CANADA BAY G

PART G - INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT

G1   General Objectives  .........................................................................................................174

G2   Setbacks  ..........................................................................................................................174

G3   Landscaping  ....................................................................................................................175

G4   Building form and appearance .......................................................................................175

G5   Light and noise ................................................................................................................176

Canada Bay DCP - Part G             ########PageG-170 

Development Control Plan Part G     Industrial DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY G1   General Objectives 

G2   Setbacks 

Objectives

O1.  To implement the Objectives of the Canada Bay 

LEP.

O2.  To improve the quality of industrial development 

within the City of Canada Bay. 

O3.  To ensure that industrial development does not 

unreasonably adversely impact on residential 
amenity.

O4.  To encourage employee amenity within Industrial 

areas.

O5.  To facilitate employment generation and maximise 
the potential of employment generating industries.

O6.  To encourage design that is sustainable and 
environmentally responsible, and takes into 
account its social impact on environmental 
amenity.

O7.  To encourage design that is of a type, scale, 

height, bulk and character that is compatible with 
and will enhance the streetscape characteristics of 
the surrounding area.

Setbacks play a number of important roles in areas 
developed for industrial uses. Front, side and rear 
setbacks ensure space for landscaping, contribute to 
streetscape consistency and modulate building bulk 
and scale. Setbacks also provide a transitional area 
or buffer to adjoining land uses and ensure building 
entrances are clearly visible

Objectives

O1.  To encourage design that is in keeping with the 

streetscape characteristics of the surrounding 
area.

O2.  To ensure sufficient space for landscaping, on site 

parking, access, and circulation.

O3.  To modulate the bulk and scale of development.

O4.  To provide a buffer to adjoining land uses, 

reducing adverse impacts on surrounding land 
uses and residential amenity. 

O5.  To integrate development with the existing street 

and footpath network.

O6.  To ensure development provides adequate 
disabled access, wherever possible.

Controls

C1. 

  The front or road setback of buildings 

should be consistent with the setback of 
adjoining buildings. Where the setback 
of adjoining buildings is inconsistent, the 
building should be consistent with the 
dominant setback found along the street.

In some instances, Council may require a 
minimum setback of 6.0m, depending on 
the circumstances of the case. 

C2. 

C3. 

  Front setbacks are to comprise soft 
landscaping in accordance with the 
requirements of section F3. 

  A minimum side and rear setback of 6.0m 
is required - 50% of the side setback can 
be used for off street parking providing the 
remaining area comprises soft landscaping 
in accordance with the requirements of 
section F3. 

C4. 

  Greater setbacks may be required for bulky, 
hazardous and noise or odour generating 
activities.

Canada Bay DCP - Part G             ########PageG-171 

Development Control Plan Part G     Industrial DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY G3   Landscaping 

G4   Building form and appearance

Landscaping provides a setting for development and 
can contribute positively to the creation of a strong 
corporate identity. It contributes to the creation of a 
pleasant working environment for employees and 
increases the amenity of on-site car parking and 
storage areas. Landscaping can also play an important 
buffer role for industrial development that adjoins 
residential development.

Objectives

O1.  To ensure that there is accessible and useable 

open space for the use of employees.

O2.  To integrate building design, car parking and 

service facilities with landscaping to achieve a 
pleasant working environment.

O3.  To protect and enhance the existing landscape 

character of the City of Canada Bay. 

O4.  To improve the visual amenity of industrial 

development sites and areas. 

O5.  To provide robust landscaping within new 
industrial development that contributes to 
biodiversity, sustainability, water efficiency and 
reduction of airborne pollutants. 

O6.  To enhance stormwater management by 

minimising hard non-porous surfaces.

Controls

C1. 

  Open space dedicated to the recreational 
use of employees is to be provided on site 
within a landscaped setting.

C2. 

  Front and side setbacks are to be 

landscaped to soften and screen buildings, 
storage, service and parking areas.

C3. 

Landscaping and fencing should not 
obscure the main building entry.

C4. 

  A minimum of 10% of the subject site 

should be landscaped.

C5. 

  All security fencing should be located 

behind the landscaped setback. Council 
may vary this requirement if it is considered 
desirable in the circumstances.

C6. 

  All landscaped areas should be supplied 
with a fully automatic irrigation system.

C7. 

  All new proposals for industrial 

development should be accompanied by a 
landscaping plan prepared by a qualified 
professional. 

Building form and appearance encompasses a number 
of aspects of building design including amenity, 
relationship to the streetscape, materials, energy use, 
and noise mitigation.

Objectives

O1.  To ensure the form and scale of development 

enhances the streetscape and visual quality of the 
area.

O2.  To encourage innovative, contemporary and 

sustainable building design.

O3.  To ensure that materials used contribute positively 

to ecological sustainability.

O4.  To minimise energy use in all parts of buildings.

O5.  To ensure building materials mitigate noise 

impacts to adjoining development, particularly 
residential areas.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

  Building height, mass, and scale should 
compliment and be in keeping with the 
character of surrounding and adjacent 
development. 

  Colours should be consistent with the 
themes of adjoining development and 
enhance the visual amenity of the industrial 
area.

C3. 

  Building entrances should be clearly 

defined and well articulated through form, 
materials and colour and provide level or 
ramped access. 

C4. 

  Buildings should not contain long, blank, 
and unarticulated walls, particularly on 
street frontages. 

C5. 

  Buildings should be of a contemporary and 

innovative design. 

All public frontages should be specially 
articulated with the use of brick, stone, 
concrete, glass (non-reflective), and like 
materials. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part G             ########PageG-172 

Development Control Plan Part G     Industrial DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
Public utilities

Controls

C6. 

  For new development and substantial 

alterations to existing premises provision 
must be made for connection to future 
underground distribution mains.

In such developments the following must be 
installed:

•  an underground service line to a suitable 

existing street pole; or

•  sheathed underground consumers mains 
to a customer pole erected near the front 
property boundary (within 1 metre).

Council may require the bundling of cables 
in the area surrounding the development to 
reduce the visual impact of overhead street 
cables.

For further details see Energy Australia 
requirements.

G5   Light and noise

It is important to maintain the amenity of adjoining land. 
Light spillage and noise emissions are two key design 
considerations.

Objectives

O1.  To ensure industrial development maintains the 

amenity of surrounding development.

O2.  To ensure appropriate noise attenuation measures 
are incorporated into building design and site 
layout.

O3.  To ensure lighting does not distract or annoy 
vehicle drivers or the occupants of adjoining 
properties.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

C3. 

  Sources of noise, where practicable, should 
be sited away from adjoining properties 
and where necessary, be screened by 
acoustical treatments.

  High-intensity noise generating industries 
will not normally be permitted in close 
proximity to residential uses. 

Light sources should be directed away from 
adjoining residential properties.

Canada Bay DCP - Part G             ########PageG-173 

Development Control Plan Part G     Industrial DevelopmentCITY OF CANADA BAY  
H

PART H - SIGNAGE AND ADVERTISING

H1   Signage and Advertising .................................................................................................178

H2   General Objectives and standards applicable to all development .............................179

H3   Sign proliferation and dominance ..................................................................................182

H4   Sign dimensions ...............................................................................................................183

H5   Integration .........................................................................................................................183

H6   Conservation areas ..........................................................................................................184

H7   Concord Oval and Drummoyne Oval Signage ..............................................................185

H8   Architectural amenity and residential character ...........................................................187

Canada Bay DCP - Part H             ########PageH-174 

Development Control Plan Part H     Signage and AdvertisingCITY OF CANADA BAY H1   Signage and Advertising

The purpose of this section is to ensure signs and 
advertising structures can be designed and located so 
they fit into the environment and do not detract from the 
character of an area. 

Making an application

Council should consider the following matters when 
dealing with an application to erect an advertising sign:

The role of signs and advertising structures

Signs and advertising structures:

•  are important for business advertising and the 

creation of a company’s corporate image;

•  provide information and identification; and

•  are used for community purposes such as advertising 
local events, informing of community services and 
identifying features of historic interest.

The controls aim to minimise excesses, such as 
advertisements which are so large they overwhelm 
buildings and landscaping, or the clutter which results 
from too many advertisements of different shapes and 
sizes on one site.

Fewer, simpler and “clean-lined” signs which are well 
located have greater visual impact, are of greater value 
to businesses and better for the visual environment.

a)   class of advertising structure, eg. awning sign, 
fascia sign, roof sign, pole or pylon sign, etc.;

b)   design of the structure;

c)   the siting, location and colour of the structure;

d)   the area of the advertising structure;

e)   the nature of any advertisement intended to be 

associated with the structure;

f)   the number of advertising structures proposed;

g)   the multiplicity of existing signs;

h)   the architectural qualities, appearance and balance 

of the building;

i)   the erection of signs without relationship to the 

function of the premises upon which the sign is to 
be erected;

j)   the erection of signs without relationship to other 
signs erected on the premises or other premises 
within the vicinity;

k)   the visual impact on the local environment; and

l)   the benefit to the community of the proposed 

advertising signs. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part H             ########PageH-175 

Development Control Plan Part H     Signage and AdvertisingCITY OF CANADA BAY H2   General Objectives and standards applicable to all development

Objectives

Inappropriate development

The siting, location, size, height, scale, design, colour, 
shape and materials of construction of advertisements 
should:

O1.  Complement and enhance the predominant 

character of the locality;

O2.  Complement and enhance any building, structure 
or site of heritage significance on which it is to be 
erected or located;

O3.  Not obscure the view of attractive landscapes, 
streetscapes, or significant buildings; and

O4.  Not adversely affect the safety of traffic or 

pedestrians.

Controls

C1. 

  The minimum controls for all signs are 

included in Table H-A.

Controls

C2. 

  The following signs and advertising 
structures are not considered to be 
appropriate:

a)   Signs erected or attached to the 

sides of buildings where such side is 
adjacent to residences or residential 
flat buildings, or where the side of 
the building faces a residential street 
unless special circumstances as 
determined by Council are considered 
to exist;

b)   Signs or advertisements other than 

those relating to the occupier(s) of the 
building;

c)   Flashing, moving, or video signs;

d)   More than one (1) projecting wall 

sign, flush wall sign or painted wall 
sign per building, or any such sign 
which is not exclusively for business 
or building identification purposes;

e)   Signs located on an awning or signs 

attached above the awning;

f)   Any sign or signboard exhibited on 

Council’s footpath;

g)   Signs attached above the roof;

h)   Permanent inflatable signs;

i)   Flag pole signs; and

j)   Signs of more than 20m2 in area or 

8.0 metres in height. 

Canada Bay DCP - Part H             ########PageH-176 

Development Control Plan Part H     Signage and AdvertisingCITY OF CANADA BAY Table H-A   Requirements for signage 

Type of sign

Maximum size/area and number

Location/ other requirements

Under Awning Sign 
(Illuminated or 
non-illuminated)

Top Hamper Sign

•  2.5m x 0.3m (maximum) 

•  Erected at right angles to the building

•  One per shop; or

•  Minimum clearance of 2.6m to footpath

•  One every 5.0m provided that distance of 
not less than 3.0m between the centres of 
signs on adjoining properties is maintained

•  Restricted to that portion of the shop front 
above the level of the head of the doorway 
or window to which it is attached. 

•  Restricted to the underside of the awning

•  Not illuminated

•  Where shop front facade comprises full 

glass, hamper signs will only be permitted 
behind the glass

•  Not to project beyond the awning

•  Not to project more than 20mm beyond the 
face of the building and below the head 
level of the doorway or window to which it 
is attached.

Pole or Pylon Sign

•  Max advertising area 4.65m2

•  Max height 8.0m

•  One per site

•  At least 2.6m above ground level and not 
to project more than 1.2m beyond the 
street alignment

•  Only where buildings are remote from the 

street alignment

Flush Wall Signs

•  5m2 or 5% of the wall area* up to 100m2

•  For wall areas* over 100m2 proposed signs 

Projecting Wall Sign 
(Vertical) where:

lowest part of sign is 
between 2.6m and 
3.7m

lowest part of sign is 
3.7m-4.5m

lowest part of sign 
exceeds 4.6m

Projecting Wall Sign 
(Horizontal)

•  One per building

•  Should not extend beyond wall edges

•  0.6m maximum projection from wall face & 

maximum 1.8m height

will be considered on a merit basis but 
should not exceed 7.5% of wall area or a 
maximum of 30m2 whichever is the lesser

•  Only permitted where no awnings exist on 

a building

•  Height of sign should not be less than 

width

•  Should be erected at right angles to the 

face of the building

•  0.7m maximum projection from wall face & 

•  Should provide 2.6m clearance to footpath 

maximum 2.4m in height

from underside of sign

•  0.9m maximum projection from wall face & 

maximum 3.0m in height

•  Should not extend within 0.6m of the kerb 

alignment

•  One per building

•  Maximum width 0.4m

•  Maximum dimensions as follows:

•  Only permitted where no awnings exist on 

•  1.3m (length) x 0.8m (height) x 0.4m (width) 

a building

for rectangular signs

•  Height of the sign is less than its width

•  1.2m x 1.2m for square signs

•  Should be erected at right angles to the 

•  1.2m diameter for round signs

•  One per building

face of the building

•  Should provide 2.6m clearance to footpath 
from underside of sign but not more than 
4.0m above footpath 

•  Should not extend within 0.6m of the kerb 

alignment

Canada Bay DCP - Part H             ########PageH-177 

Development Control Plan Part H     Signage and AdvertisingCITY OF CANADA BAY Type of sign

Maximum size/area and number

Location/ other requirements

Multi-Occupancy 
Buildings

Signs attached 
above awning

•  One sign per building for identification.

•  Under awning signs should meet above 

requirements for such signs

•  Not permitted

Fascia Sign

•  Not permitted except painting of a sign on the fascia of an awning

•  Must not project above or below the awning or the return end of the fascia

Roof Sign

•  Not permitted

Floodlit Sign
* Measurement of the wall area does not include the area below awning area or any area obscured by the adjoining 
property.

•  Not permitted except where special circumstances exist

l

e
v
e

l

1

2

3

Awning fascia sign

Under awning sign

Top hamper sign

Painted or etched window sign

Flush wall signs

KEY

1

2

3

4

5

4

5

i

g
n
n
w
a

e
v
o
b
A

l

e
v
e

l

i

g
n
n
w
a
w
o
e
B

l

i

e
t
a
n
m
o
d
o
t

e
r
u
t
c
e
t
i
h
c
r
a
w
o

l
l

A

g
n
i
s
i
t
r
e
v
d
a
m
o
r
f
n
a
r
t
s
e
R

i

g
n
i
s
i
t
r
e
v
d
a

t
i

m
r
e
P

Figure H2.1   Types of advertising signs

Illustration 9.1 Types of advertising signs

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Canada Bay DCP - Part H             ########PageH-178 

Development Control Plan Part H     Signage and AdvertisingCITY OF CANADA BAY H3   Sign proliferation and dominance

The number of signs displayed on any site should be 
minimised in order to avoid visual clutter, duplication 
of message and adverse impacts on the amenity of 
adjacent areas from which the signs are visible. 

Refer to figure H3.1

Objectives

O1.  To minimise the proliferation of signs and visual 

clutter. 

O2.  To ensure signs are clearly visible without 

dominating buildings or streets.

Controls

C1. 

  Signs, other than those relating to the 

occupier of the building are not permitted.

C2. 

  Maximum size/area and number are 

included in Table H-A.

C3. 

  The number of advertisements displayed 
on any site should be minimised in order 
to avoid visual clutter and duplication of 
message.

C4. 

  Signs should be designed to provide clear 
property and business identification without 
dominating the site or the streetscape.

C5. 

  Signage should be visually sub-ordinate to 
the building as a whole and its façades.

C6. 

In multi-tenanted buildings, a single 
coordinated free-standing advertisement or 
directory board should be used. 

Undesirable sign dimensions

Preferred sign dimensions

Illustration 9.2 Undesirable and preferred sign dimensions

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Undesirable sign dimensions

Preferred sign dimensions

Figure H3.1   Undesireable and preferred sign dimensions 
Illustration 9.2 Undesirable and preferred sign dimensions

©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Canada Bay DCP - Part H             ########PageH-179 

Development Control Plan Part H     Signage and AdvertisingCITY OF CANADA BAY  
H4   Sign dimensions

H5   Integration

Signs should be designed to provide clearly identifiable 
business identification without dominating the 
appearance of the site or streetscape.

Objectives

O1.  To ensure signs do not dominate buildings or 

streetscape and are in keeping with the character 
of the surrounding area. 

Controls

C1. 

  Maximum size/area and number are 

included in Table H-A.

C2. 

  The supporting structure of free-standing 
advertisements should be of dimensions 
which provide good visual balance to 
the structure in addition to the necessary 
structural supports.

C3. 

  Supporting structures should not dominate 

the sign, building or streetscape.

C4. 

  Free standing signs and advertisements on 
multi-tenanted buildings should be limited 
to one per building.

Signs and advertising structures are valuable in 
providing information, identification and warning. 
Signs need to be clearly visible. Signs and advertising 
structures should be sensitively sited and designed so 
they are well integrated with building and landscape 
design to minimise adverse impacts on streetscape and 
urban character.

Objectives

O1.  To ensure signs are well located and integrated 
with building and landscape design where 
possible.

Controls

C1. 

  Signs attached to buildings should be of 
appropriate colour, scale and proportion, 
and of an integrated design that is 
coordinated with the architectural form 
and design of the building upon which the 
advertisement or advertising display is 
located.

C2. 

  Free-standing advertisements should not 

rely upon the removal of trees or lopping of 
branches in order to be visible.

Canada Bay DCP - Part H             ########PageH-180 

Development Control Plan Part H     Signage and AdvertisingCITY OF CANADA BAY H6   Conservation areas

Outdoor advertising should be designed and located in 
a manner which conserves the character and heritage 
significance of the building, street or area which 
have been identified as significant. Generally, signs 
on individual buildings or within conservation areas 
should be sensitively designed and located and should 
complement the building or area.

Objectives

O1.  To ensure signs associated with heritage buildings 

are sensitively designed and located.

O2.  To ensure signs do not detract from the 

appearance and character of Conservation Areas.

Controls

C1. 

  Signs and advertising structures should be 
designed and located in a manner which 
conserves or enhances heritage places 
and buildings, and the appearance and 
character of conservation areas.

C2. 

  New signs should not be placed on the side 

of buildings.

C3. 

  Signs should observe traditional sign 

locations, and wherever possible original 
signs should be retained and conserved at 
the site. 

C4. 

  Signs should not break the historic parapet 

or roofline.

C5. 

  Signs should temper modern advertising 

styles with sympathetic design details (eg. 
sympathetic colours, margins, type, style) 
without trying necessarily to recreate a 
“historic” theme.

C6. 

  Proponents should demonstrate through 

research that the advertising proposal is in 
keeping with the historic building or place.

C7. 

C8. 

Illuminated signs should not be placed on 
heritage items or in conservation areas.

Undesirable sign dimensions
  Signs should be constructed with a high 
standard of materials and graphics.

C9. 

  Signs should be minimalist in their scale 

and design. 

Refer to figure H6.1

Undesirable sign dimensions

Preferred sign dimensions

Illustration 9.3 Undesirable and preferred signs for conservations

areas
©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Preferred sign dimensions

Figure H6.1   Undesireable and preferred signs for conservation areas 
Illustration 9.3 Undesirable and preferred signs for conservations

areas
©

2009 |

www.

integrated

design

solutions.com.au

Canada Bay DCP - Part H             ########PageH-181 

Development Control Plan Part H     Signage and AdvertisingCITY OF CANADA BAY  
H7   Concord Oval and Drummoyne Oval Signage

Council recognises the need for corporate and 
community sponsorship of sporting groups in the local 
area. At the same time, it acknowledges the need to 
ensure that the appearance and amenity of the natural 
built environment of the reserves and surrounding areas 
is protected.

Signage approval is valid for the term stated in the 
consent. After this time, applicants must reapply to 
Council for approval to erect sponsorship signage.

Objectives

O1.  To allow sponsorship signage for community 

based sporting clubs in locations and a manner 
that complements the role of the reserves.

O2.  To control the display of advertising material in 

such a manner as will reasonably protect the 
amenity of the local area.

O3.  To ensure that sponsorship signage is directly 

related to the reserve/sporting facility in which it is 
displayed.

O4.  To coordinate the placement of signage on 

reserves and associated facilities to minimise 
clutter, avoid unnecessary duplication and improve 
the reserves attractiveness and function.

Location of sponsorship signs

Controls

C1. 

  Signage is to be located so as to be visible 
only to persons attending the organised 
sports activities on the reserve and should 
not face outward (see figure H7.1).

The protection of views into and within 
public areas is to be maintained and 
enhanced.

Signage is only permitted on fencing 
around the sporting field. Applications for 
signage on grandstands and scoreboards 
at Concord and Drummoyne ovals will be 
considered based on merit assessment. 

Signage on perimeter fences shall face 
inwards towards the sporting facility and 
shall be restricted to the height of the fence 
surrounding the sporting field. 

Where the rear side of the sign is visible 
from any road, street or waterway, the rear 
side shall be treated in a manner so as to 
blend with the existing fence structure.

The visibility of the signage from the 
surrounding roads, streets, waterways or 
residential areas is to be minimised.

Canada Bay DCP - Part H             ########PageH-182 

Development Control Plan Part H     Signage and AdvertisingCITY OF CANADA BAY Design and content of sponsorship signs

Controls

C2. 

Illuminated, animated, flashing or moving 
signs are not permissible.

No signage is to be painted directly onto a 
fence or other structure.

All signage must include the sporting clubs 
name on at least 25% of the overall area of 
the sign.

Signage content is restricted to information 
about the sponsors of the teams or 
organisations using the sporting facility or 
about the products of those sponsors.

Where permissible, signage on 
scoreboards, grandstands etc, shall not 
exceed the width of the structure by more 
than 1 metre. No signs are to extend above 
the existing height of the structure.

Signage is not to contain any 
advertisements for cigarettes.

General

Controls

C3. 

  The applicant is to be responsible for 

maintaining signage in a good state of 
repair.

All sporting bodies and advertisers are to 
be made aware that signs may be removed 
or covered up during special “one off” 
events.

Figure H7.1   Location criteria for signage

Key: Section of fence suitable for permanent signage. 
Signs to face Pavilion or viewing area. Signage must 
not be visible from outside the reserve.

Note: The locational criteria apply to tennis courts, lawn 
bowls and other relevant recreation facilities within the 
Council Reserve system.

Canada Bay DCP - Part H             ########PageH-183 

Development Control Plan Part H     Signage and AdvertisingCITY OF CANADA BAY  
H8   Architectural amenity and residential character

The scale of advertising signs should be compatible 
with the buildings they are on as well as with nearby 
buildings and other existing signs. Many traditional 
building designs can be easily broken into a grid based 
on the alignments of the parapet (skyline), cornice, 
verandah, window and door. 

Appropriate dimensions are often achieved by 
restricting signs to grid locations or panels. This 
ensures that the original architectural character (set 
by the lines of awnings, window and door openings, 
parapet lines and setbacks) remains dominant.

Objectives

O1.  To ensure signs and advertising structures respect 

the architectural character of the building and the 
locality.

O2.  To ensure the location of signs maintains and 
protects the amenity of residential areas.

Controls

C1. 

  The scale of advertising signs should be 

compatible with the buildings they are on, 
nearby buildings, street widths and other 
existing signs.

C2. 

  On buildings with decorative facades, signs 
should not be placed on the decorative 
forms or mouldings. Instead they should 
appear on the undecorated wall surfaces, 
unless architecturally designed sign panels 
are provided.

C3. 

  Where commercial areas adjoin residential 
areas, signs should not be permitted on 
walls facing adjoining dwellings.

Canada Bay DCP - Part H             ########PageH-184 

Development Control Plan Part H     Signage and AdvertisingCITY OF CANADA BAY THIS PAGE WAS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

Canada Bay DCP - Part H             ########PageH-185 

Development Control Plan Part H     Signage and AdvertisingCITY OF CANADA BAY I

PART I - CHILD CARE CENTRES

I1   Child Care Centres  ...........................................................................................................190

I2   Building setbacks ..............................................................................................................190

I3   Provision of parking ..........................................................................................................190

I4   Signage ...............................................................................................................................190

Canada Bay DCP - Part I             ########PageI-186 

Development Control Plan Part I      Child Care CentresCITY OF CANADA BAY I1   Child Care Centres 

I3   Provision of parking

The aim of this section of the DCP is to support 
the planning controls provided within the State 
Environmental Planning Policy (Educational 
Establishments and Child Care Facilities) 2017 and 
achieve appropriate development of Child Care Centre 
within each land use zone.

Objectives

To ensure that Child Care Centres:

O1. 

 Are compatible with neighbouring land uses;

O2. 

Integrate into existing residential environments 
and are unobtrusive in terms of size, bulk and 
height;

O3.  Are appropriate for the surrounding built form and 

natural landscape;

Objectives

O1.  To ensure the adequate provision of car parking.

Controls

C1. 

C2. 

  One (1) car parking space is to be provided 
for every four (4) licensed places at the 
Child Care Centre.

  A designated space is to be provided for 
disabled parking/service vehicles close to 
the main entrance of the child care centre.

I4   Signage

Objectives

O1.  Complement and enhance the predominant 

O4.  Will have minimum impact on surrounding land 

character of the locality;

O2.  Not obscure the view of attractive landscapes, 
streetscapes, or significant buildings; and

O3.  Not adversely affect the safety of traffic or 

pedestrians.

Controls

C1. 

  For Child Care Centres in residential zones, 
advertising should be limited to not more 
than one sign per Child Care Centre which
a)   Has a maximum area of 0.5m2; and

b)   Serves only to identify the name and 

phone number of the Child Care Centre 
and the hours of operation.

C2. 

  For Child Care Centres in all other zones, 

compliance should be achieved with 
Council’s signage requirements.

uses; and

O5.  To ensure the health, safety and wellbeing of 
children and staff in Child Care Centres. 

I2   Building setbacks

Objectives

O1.  To ensure the height and scale of a child care 
centre relates to site conditions, complements 
the prevailing character of the streetscape and 
minimises any adverse amenity impacts upon the 
surrounding properties.

O2.  To ensure the appearance of the development 

enhances the streetscape.

Controls

C1. 

  The Child Care Centre should comply with 
the relevant setback controls as stipulated 
in the Canada Bay Development Control 
Plan as follows:

•  Within a residential zone, setbacks for 

dwelling houses; and

•  Within a commercial / industrial zone – 
setbacks will be considered on a merit 
basis.

Canada Bay DCP - Part I             ########PageI-187 

Development Control Plan Part I      Child Care CentresCITY OF CANADA BAY J

PART J - DEFINITIONS

Definitions .................................................................................................................................192

Canada Bay DCP - Part J             ########PageJ-188 

Development Control Plan Part J      DefinitionsCITY OF CANADA BAY Definitions

Acid sulfate soils

Building Height (or height of building)

Acid sulfate soils - means naturally occurring sediments 
and soils containing iron sulfides (principally pyrite) or 
their precursors or oxidation products, whose exposure 
to oxygen leads to the generation of sulfuric acid (for 
example, by drainage or excavation).

Attic

Attic - means any habitable space, but not a separate 
dwelling, contained wholly within a roof above the 
ceiling line of the storey immediately below, except for 
minor elements such as a dormer windows and the like.

Basement

Basement - means the space of a building where the 
floor level of that space is predominantly below ground 
level (existing) and where the floor level of the storey 
immediately above is less than 1 metre above ground 
level (existing).

Bicycle Parking Facility

Bicycle parking facility - is an area reserved or designed 
for short term parking of one or more bicycles. It 
includes a device to which the bicycle frame and wheels 
can be locked. It is mostly used by visitors to the 
development at which it is provided.

Bicycle Storage Facility

Bicycle storage facility - is an area reserved or designed 
for long term parking of one or more bicycles. It is 
usually enclosed to provide security. It is mostly used by 
employees or residents of the development at which it 
is provided.

Building Envelope

Building envelope - means the three-dimensional space 
within which a building is to be confined.

Building Footprint

Building footprint - means the area of land measured at 
finished ground level which is enclosed by the external 
walls of a building

Building height (or height of building) - means the 
vertical distance between ground level (existing) at any 
point to highest point of the building, including plant 
and lift overruns, but excluding communication devices, 
antennae, satellite dishes, masts, flagpoles, chimneys, 
flues and the like.

Building height plane

Building height plane - means a plane projected at an 
angle of 45o over the actual land to be built upon from a 
vertical distance of 5.0 metres above ground level at the 
side boundaries of the site.

Building identification signs

Building identification sign - means a sign that identifies 
or names a building and that may include the name of 
a building, the street name and number of a building, 
and a logo or other symbol, but that does not include 
general advertising of products, goods or services.

Building line or setback

Building line or setback - means the horizontal distance 
between the property boundary or other stated 
boundary (measured at 90 degrees from the boundary) 
and:

a)   A building wall, or

b)   the outside face of any balcony, deck or the like, or

c)   the supporting posts of a carport or verandah roof,

whichever is the shortest.

Business identification sign

Business identification sign - means a sign:

a)   That indicates:

1. 

the name of the person or business, and

2. 

the nature of the business carried on by the person 
at the premises or place at which the sign is 
displayed, and

b)   may include the address of the premises or place 
and a logo or other symbol that identifies the 
business, but does not include any advertising 
relating to a person that does not carry on business 
at the premises or place.

Canada Bay DCP - Part J             ########PageJ-189 

Development Control Plan Part J      DefinitionsCITY OF CANADA BAY Ceiling Height

Ceiling height - in relation to buildings means the 
greatest distance measured vertically from the ceiling of 
the upper most habitable room, or in the case of raked 
or cathedral ceilings a line projected from associated 
ceilings, to the existing ground level, or the lowest 
habitable floor immediately below that point, whether 
or not at natural ground level, excluding chimneys, attic 
rooms, and non-habitable rooms which are entirely 
below natural ground level and have no visible external 
elevation whatsoever.

1. 

lessons or coaching in, or providing for participation 
in, a cultural, recreational, religious or sporting 
activity, or

2.  private tutoring, or

i)   a school, or

j)   a service provided at exempt premises (within the 
meaning of section 200 of the Children and Young 
Persons (Care and Protection) Act 1998), such 
as hospitals, but only if the service is established, 
registered or licensed as part of the institution 
operating on those premises.

Child Care Centre

Co-located facilities

Child care centre - means a building or place used for 
the supervision and care of children that:

Co-located facilities – means one or more facilities on 
or within an original facility or a public utility structure.

a)   Provides long day care, pre-school care, occasional 

child care or out-of-school-hours care, and

Co-Siting

b)   does not provide overnight accommodation for 

children other than those related to the owner or 
operator of the centre,

but does not include:

c)   a family day care home or home-based child care 

home, or

d)   an out-of-home care service provided by an agency 
or organisation accredited by the NSW Office of the 
Children’s Guardian, or

e)   a baby-sitting, playgroup or child-minding service 
that is organised informally by the parents of the 
children concerned, or

f)   a service provided for fewer than 5 children 

(disregarding any children who are related to the 
person providing the service) at the premises at 
which at least one of the children resides, being a 
service that is not advertised, or

g)   a regular child-minding service that is provided in 

connection with a recreational or commercial facility 
(such as a gymnasium), by or on behalf of the 
person conducting the facility, to care for children 
while the children’s parents are using the facility, or

h)   a service that is concerned primarily with the 

provision of:

Co-siting – means the siting of a number of 
telecommunication facilities, often owned by different 
carriers, in one location.

Collection Area

Collection area - is the location where garbage or 
recyclable material is transferred from a building’s 
storage containers to a collection vehicle for removal 
from the site.

Communal Open Space

Communal open space - means useable shared open 
space for the recreation and relaxation of residents of a 
housing development and which is under the control of 
a body corporate or equivalent.

Conservation Plan

Conservation plan - means a document establishing 
the significance of a heritage item and recommending 
an appropriate policy to enable that significance to be 
retained.

Cumulative impact

Cumulative impact – in relation to Telecommunications 
and Radiocommunications infrastructure - means the 
impact of radiation from various sources or over time.

Canada Bay DCP - Part J             ########PageJ-190 

Development Control Plan Part J      DefinitionsCITY OF CANADA BAY Council

Council - means the City of Canada Bay Council or any 
officer or delegated authority authorised to act on behalf 
of Council.

Frontage - means the alignment at the public road 
reserve at the front of a lot and in the case of a lot that 
abuts two or more streets, the boundary of which, when 
chosen, would enable the lot to comply with the DCP 
provisions.

Development Control Plan (DCP)

A plan made to provide more detailed provisions than 
those included in a local environmental plan. 

Dormer Window

Dormer window - means a construction containing a 
vertical window framed into and projecting through a 
steeply sloping roof. It can be a window or a group of 
windows forming a bay or recess in a room projecting 
outward from the general line of the wall.

Dual Occupancy

Dual occupancy – means two (2) dwellings (whether 
attached or detached) on one lot of land.

Dwelling House

Dwelling house - means a building containing only one 
dwelling.

Ecologically sustainable development

Ecologically sustainable development - means 
development that meets the needs of the present 
without compromising the ability of future generations 
to meet their own needs. ESD encompasses energy 
efficiency, minimising greenhouse gas emissions, 
the efficient use of land and resources, biodiversity 
conservation and equity within and between 
generations.

Electromagnetic radiation (EMR)

Electromagnetic radiation (EMR) – means the radiation 
in the microwave and radiofrequency band of the 
electromagnetic spectrum.

Floor Space Ratio

Floor Space Ratio – See clause 4.5 of the Canada Bay 
Local Environmental Plan.

Frontage

Garbage and Recycling Room

Garbage and Recycling Room - means a room where 
garbage and recycling receptacles are stored, awaiting 
reuse or removal from the premises.

Gross Floor Area

Gross Floor Area – means the sum of the floor area 
of each floor of a building measured from the internal 
face of external walls, or from the internal face of 
walls separating the building from any other building, 
measured at a height of 1.4 metres above the floor, and 
includes:

a)   The area of a mezzanine, and

b)   habitable rooms in a basement or an attic, and

c)   any shop, auditorium, cinema and the like, in a 

basement or attic, 

But excludes:

d)   any areas for common vertical circulation, such as 

lifts and stairs, and

e)   any basement:

i)   storage, and

ii)   vehicular access, loading areas, garbage and 

services, and

f)   plant rooms, lift towers and other areas used 

exclusively for mechanical services or ducting, and

g)   car parking to meet any requirements of the consent 
authority (including access to that car parking), and

h)   any space used for the loading or unloading of 

goods (including access to it), and

i)   terraces and balconies with outer walls less than 1.4 

metres high, and

j)   voids above a floor at the level of a storey or storey 

above.

Ground Level (existing)

Ground level (existing) means the existing level of a site 
at any point.

Gross Leaseable Floor Area

Canada Bay DCP - Part J             ########PageJ-191 

Development Control Plan Part J      DefinitionsCITY OF CANADA BAY Gross Leaseable Floor Area – the sum of the areas 
of each floor of a building that is taken to be the area 
within the internal faces of the walls, excluding stairs, 
amenities, lifts, corridors and other public areas but 
including stock storage area.

Habitable Room

Habitable room - is a bedroom, living room or kitchen, 
dining room, study, play room and sun room.

but excludes:

a bathroom, laundry, water closet, food storage pantry, 
walk-in wardrobe, corridor, hallway, lobby, photographic 
darkroom, clothes drying room, ancillary storage or 
parking area and other spaces of a specialised nature 
occupied neither frequently nor for extended periods.

Injuring

Injuring - includes the administration to any part of 
a tree of any chemical or compound or substance 
which has the potential to harm the tree, irrespective 
of whether it actually harms the tree; “injuring” also 
includes altering the ground level in the near vicinity of 
the tree; “injuring” also includes changing the level of 
the water table so as to adversely affect the tree.

Landscaped Area

Low Impact Facility (LIF)

Low impact facility (LIF) - a facility that is exempted 
from state and council local planning under the 
Telecommunications (Low-impact Facilities) 
Determination 1997. 

Medium Dwelling

Medium dwelling - means a two (2) bedroom dwelling, 
the floor space of which is not less than 79m2 but not 
more than 98m2.

Multi Dwelling Housing

Multiple dwelling housing - means three (3) or more 
dwellings (whether attached or detached) on one lot 
of land (not being an individual lot in a strata plan or 
community title scheme) each with access at ground 
level, but does not include a residential flat building.

NatHERS or equivalent

NatHERS or equivalent - NatHERS (Nationwide House 
Energy Rating System) is a computer simulation 
tool developed by the CSIRO for rating the thermal 
performance of houses across Australia. The Energy 
Management Task Force is responsible for delivering a 
NatHERS compliance protocol. Any software or paper 
checklist which passes under this protocol is deemed 
“NatHERS or equivalent” (SEDA 1997).

Landscaped area - means a part of a residential site 
used for growing plants, grasses and trees, but does 
not include any building, structure or hard paved area.

North Facing

Large Dwelling

North facing - means the orientation within 20 degrees 
east and 30 degrees west of true north.

Large dwelling - means a three (3) or more bedroom 
dwelling, the floor space of which is more than 98m2.

Outbuilding

Local Environmental Plan (LEP)

An LEP is a legal document and generally provides the 
land use zones, Council Objectives and development 
standards for different types of development.

Outbuilding - means a detached building or structure 
used for purposes ancillary to the main dwelling on 
an allotment and includes cabanas, gazebos, garden 
sheds, greenhouses, garages, carports and the like.

Private Open Space

Private open space - means an area external to a 
building (including an area of land, terrace, balcony 
or deck) that is used for private outdoors purposes 
ancillary to the use of the building.

Canada Bay DCP - Part J             ########PageJ-192 

Development Control Plan Part J      DefinitionsCITY OF CANADA BAY Radiocommunications facility

Small Dwelling

Radiocommunications facility – means a base station 
or radio communications link, satellite-based facility or 
radio communications transmitter.

Small dwelling - means a one (1) bedroom dwelling or 
studio apartment, the floor space of which is not more 
than 79m2.

Recycable

Solar Access

Recyclable - means capable of being reprocessed into 
useable material or re-used.

Solar access - means the amount of direct access to 
sunlight enjoyed by a building, room or open space.

Removal and Cutting down

Statement of Heritage Impact (SOHI)

Removal and cutting down - means the cutting down of 
a tree so that the tree, including its branches, foliage, 
trunk, stump and root system will not regrow. This 
includes the poisoning of the stump and/or roots and/
or removal or grinding out of its remains to prevent 
regrowth. “Transplanting” is “Removal” when a tree is 
relocated from one property to another.

Statement of Heritage Impact (SOHI) - means 
a statement prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Heritage Manual that addresses the 
significance of the place or item; adequately describes 
the existing features of the item or place; describes the 
proposed works and its contribution to the significance 
of the item; and justifies any proposed works.

Residential Flat Builidng

Special Waste

Residential flat building – means a building containing 
three (3) or more dwellings, but does not include an 
attached dwelling or multi dwelling housing.

Semi-Detached Dwelling

Semi-detached dwelling - means a dwelling that is on 
its own lot of land (not being an individual lot in a strata 
plan or community title scheme) and is attached to only 
one other dwelling.

Site Coverage

Site Coverage – means the proportion of a site area 
covered by buildings. However, the following are not 
included for the purpose of calculating site coverage:

a)   Any basement,

b)   any part of an awning that is outside the outer walls 
of a building and that adjoins the street frontage or 
other site boundary,

c)   any eaves,

d)   unenclosed decks, pergolas and the like.

Special waste - means a waste that posed or is likely 
to pose an immediate or long-term risk to human 
health or the environment. This includes hazardous 
waste, clinical waste and contaminated waste. Special 
arrangements need to be made for the management of 
these wastes. 

Storey

Storey - means a space within a building that is situated 
between one floor level and the floor level next above, 
or if there is no floor above, the ceiling or roof above, 
but does not include:

a)   A space that contains only a lift shaft, stairway or 

meter room, or

b)   a mezzanine, or

c)   an attic.

Telecommunications facility

Telecommunications facility - any part of the 
infrastructure of a Telecommunications Network. It 
includes any telecommunications line, equipment, 
apparatus, telecommunications tower, mast, antenna, 
tunnel, duct, hole, pit, pole or other structure 
or thing used, or for use in connection with a 
Telecommunications Network.

Canada Bay DCP - Part J             ########PageJ-193 

Development Control Plan Part J      DefinitionsCITY OF CANADA BAY Telecommunications Network

Waste Management Plan

Telecommunications Network – means a system, or 
series of systems, that carries, or is capable of carrying, 
communications by means of guided and/or unguided 
electromagnetic radiation.

Waste Management Plan – means a checklist showing 
the volume and type of waste to be generated, stored 
and treated on site, and how the residual is to be 
disposed, re-processed, re-used or recycled.

Tree

Waste Storage and Recycling Area

Waste storage and recycling area – means a 
designated area or a combination of designated areas 
on the site of a building for the housing of approved 
containers to store all waste material (including 
recyclable material) likely to be generated by the 
occupants of the building.

For a comprehensive list of definitions please refer to 
the Canada Bay LEP.

Tree - means a perennial plant with at least one 
self-supporting woody or fibrous stem.

Wall Height

Wall height - means the greatest distance measured 
vertically from the topmost point on an external wall of a 
building, other than a gable wall or the wall of a dormer 
window, to existing ground level immediately below that 
point.

Waste

Waste – means any substance that is no longer able 
to be used for the purpose for which it was originally 
intended, and defined under the Waste Minimisation 
and Management Act, 1995, as:

a)   Any substance (whether solid, liquid or gaseous) 
that is discharged, emitted or deposited in the 
environment in such volume or manner as to cause 
an alteration in the environment; or

b)   any discarded, rejected, unwanted, surplus or 

abandoned substance; or 

c)   any otherwise discarded, rejected, unwanted, 

surplus or abandoned substance intended for sale 
or recycling, reprocessing, recovery or purification 
by a separate operation from that which produced 
the substance; or

d)   any substance prescribed by the regulation to 
be waste under the Waste Minimisation and 
Management Regulation.

For the purpose of the DCP, a substance is not 
precluded from being waste merely because it can be 
re-processed, re-used or recycled.

Canada Bay DCP - Part J             ########PageJ-194 

Development Control Plan Part J      DefinitionsCITY OF CANADA BAY THIS PAGE WAS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

Canada Bay DCP - Part J             ########PageJ-195 

Development Control Plan Part J      DefinitionsCITY OF CANADA BAY A1

APPENDIX 1 - CONSERVATION AREAS

Overview  ..................................................................................................................................200

Statements of significance  ....................................................................................................201

CA.1  Birkenhead and Dawson Estates Conservation Area ..............................................201

CA.2  Bourketown Conservation Area  ..............................................................................206

CA.3  Creewood Street Conservation Area  ......................................................................214

CA.4  Drummoyne Avenue East Conservation Area .........................................................216

CA.5  Drummoyne Avenue West Conservation Area  .......................................................219

CA.6  Drummoyne Park Conservation Area ......................................................................221

CA.7  Gale Street Inter-War Californian Bungalow Group  ...............................................224

CA.8  Gale Street Victorian Housing Group  .....................................................................226

CA.9  Gears Avenue Conservation Area  ..........................................................................228

CA.10  Gipps Street Conservation Area  ...........................................................................230

CA.11  Hampden Road Conservation Area .......................................................................232

CA.12  Lindfield Avenue Conservation Area  .....................................................................235

CA.13  Majors Bay Road Conservation Area  ...................................................................237

CA.14  Marlborough and Tavistock Streets Conservation Area .........................................239

CA.15  Mons Street and Boronia Avenue Conservation Area ...........................................242

CA.16  Moore Street Conservation Area  ..........................................................................244

CA.17  Mortlake Workers' Housing Group .........................................................................246

CA.18  Park Avenue Conservation Area ............................................................................248

CA.19  Parklands Estate Conservation Area  ....................................................................250

CA.20  Powell's Estate Conservation Area  .......................................................................252

CA.21  Sailsbury Street Housing Group ............................................................................254

CA.22  Thompson Street Conservation Area  ....................................................................256

CA.23  Victoria Road Retail Conservation Area ................................................................258

CA.24  Yaralla Estate Conservation Area ..........................................................................260

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-196

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY Overview 

List of Conservation Areas 

CA.1

CA.2

CA.3

CA.4

CA.5

CA.6

CA.7

CA.8

CA.9

CA.10

CA.11

CA.12

CA.13

CA.14

CA.15

CA.16

CA.17

CA.18

CA.19

CA.20

CA.21

CA.22

CA.23

CA.24

Birkenhead and Dawson Estates Conservation Area

Bourketown Conservation Area

Creewood Street Conservation Area

Drummoyne Avenue East Conservation Area

Drummoyne Avenue West Conservation Area

Drummoyne Park Conservation Area

Gale Street Inter-War Californian Bungalow Group

Gale Street Victorian Housing Group

Gears Avenue Conservation Area

Gipps Street Conservation Area

Hampden Road Conservation Area

Lindfield Avenue Conservation Area

Majors Bay Road Conservation Area

Marlborough and Tavistock Streets Conservation Area

Mons Street and Boronia Avenue Conservation Area

Moore Street Conservation Area

Mortlake Workers’ Housing Group

Park Avenue Conservation Area

Parklands Estate Conservation Area

Powell’s Estate Conservation Area

Sailsbury Street Housing Group

Thompson Street Conservation Area

Victoria Road Retail Conservation Area

Yaralla Estate Conservation Area

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-197

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY Statements of significance 

CA.1  Birkenhead and Dawson Estates Conservation Area

History

This conservation area includes the subdivisions of 
two major estates. The first was the 1882 Birkenhead 
Estate subdivision that included the land bounded by 
Lyons Road, Victoria Road, Ferry Lane, Ferry Road, 
and Iron Cove Bay. That was followed in 1901 by two 
subdivisions of the Dawson Estate that included most of 
the land to the east of Ferry Lane. A third subdivision of 
the Dawson Estate in 1908 included the land between 
Albert Street, Alexander Street and Queen Victoria 
Road.

Development in this Conservation Area followed the 
subdivisions and houses from the Victorian period 
survive in Renwick Street and on Park Avenue, 
Thornley Street and Day Street. Most of the remaining 
development is from the Federation period, reflecting 
the continued development of the Birkenhead Estate 
and the rapid development of the Dawson Estate 
subdivisions. 

Description

This area contains some of the earliest surviving 
buildings in Drummoyne with an interesting collection 
of buildings from the late Victorian period including a 
number of stone houses in Renwick Street. The area 
is also of historical interest with the very high retention 
rate of items of heritage significance in Renwick Street 
due to its long term road widening affectation which 
effectively prevented any development for over 20 
years. This has resulted in this group of properties 
surviving as the most intact early and modest housing 
streetscape in the Municipality.

The styles of housing in the Conservation Area reflects 
the various subdivisions. Renwick Street was developed 
early in the development of Drummoyne, along with 
other streets close to Victoria Road. In contrast the 
adjoining streets released for development at a later 
period are more typical of the strong Federation 
character of Drummoyne. 

The scale of building is modest with a large number of 
simple timber cottages, stone cottages and generally 
unpretentious buildings. This is particularly seen in 
Alexandra Street and Day Street.

The area falls into three distinct characters:

•  Renwick Street with its late Victorian through to inter-

war housing

•  Alexandra, Albert and Day Streets which have a 

predominantly Federation character and

•  Thornley Street and Park Avenue which have a mix 
of Edwardian, Federation and several late Victorian 
buildings.

The generally narrow allotments (15-16m frontages) 
has resulted in tightly packed development. Access to 
the rear of allotments on Alexandra Street and Renwick 
Street has allowed garages and carports to be built 
away from the main streetscape.

Statement of Significance

The Birkenhead and Dawson Estates Conservation 
Area is of high heritage significance for the very intact 
and complete streetscapes reflecting the intense 
development of Drummoyne in the late nineteenth and 
early twentieth century. The styles of housing clearly 
reflect the pattern of subdivision of the area.

This Conservation Area includes extensive groups of 
Federation and Edwardian housing interspersed with 
Victorian cottages and some larger two storey homes. 
The narrow allotments and generally consistent scale 
of development create a cohesive and interesting 
streetscape.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-198

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY Analysis - Setting

Doors and Windows

Doors and windows are usually vertically 
proportioned. Larger openings, when they occur, are 
divided vertically.

Carparking

Parking is generally at the rear of the property, in 
some cases taking advantage of rear street access. 
On steeply sloping sites, some garages have been 
built into the retaining walls on the street front.

Fencing

A mixture of fencing is used and depends to some 
extent on the nature of the site and the character of 
the house. 

Masonry retaining walls of face brick or stone are 
used on sloping sites. Low masonry fences of either 
face brick or stone are common on the early twentieth 
century development. On some late Federation and 
Inter-War housing, the brick piers are linked by a 
pipe rail. Timber picket fences are usually modern 
reproductions and are not original to the streetscape.

Garden Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

Hedges are often used where increased privacy is 
desired. Driveways are often a pair of concrete strips 
parallel to the side boundary of the house. Terraces 
provide a setting on steeply sloping sites where 
houses are located on the high point to maximise 
views. 

Refer to figures App1.1 to App1.3

This conservation area has narrow allotments. Setbacks 
are generally smaller closer to Victoria Road. Street 
trees are important in contributing to the character of 
much of this area. The angled junction of Ferry Lane 
and Thornley Streets gives additional interest to the 
streetscape in that part of the Conservation Area.

Scale

Most of the housing has single storey frontages to 
the street, consistent with the narrow allotments. Two 
storey housing is scattered through the area. Some 
semi-detached housing utilising double allotments is 
included in the area and gives the impression of larger 
scaled housing.

Form

Some of the earlier development has simple 
rectangular massing with simple hipped roofs and 
verandahs running across the full width of the houses. 
The dominant Federation period housing breaks 
up the overall massing with projecting wings and 
more complex roof forms. Gables are used either as 
decorative features or as the main roof form. The two 
storey housing on the smaller allotments generally has 
quite simple massing with the main bulk of the building 
set behind a verandah to help reduce the overall bulk in 
the streetscape. 

Facades usually include verandahs and elements that 
step forward of the main part of the building. This often 
adds interest to the roof form as well as the street 
front of the house. Simple verandahs across the street 
facades help to soften the impact of the higher two 
storey facades on the streetscape.

Materials and Colours

Face brickwork is the most common original material. 
Sandstone and render is found on the earlier Victorian 
housing. Roofs of the Federation and Edwardian 
housing are usually terracotta or slate shingled. Some 
cottages have galvanised corrugated steel roofs.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-199

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY i

w
e
v
r
e
v
O

-

a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
s
e
t
a
t
s
E
n
o
s
w
a
D
d
n
a

d
a
e
h
n
e
k
r
i

B

1
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-200

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1

t
e
e
h
S

-

a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
s
e
t
a
t
s
E
n
o
s
w
a
D
d
n
a

d
a
e
h
n
e
k
r
i

B

2
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-201

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2

t
e
e
h
S

-

a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
s
e
t
a
t
s
E
n
o
s
w
a
D
d
n
a

d
a
e
h
n
e
k
r
i

B

3
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-202

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.2  Bourketown Conservation Area 

History

Bourketown was initially established in the 1840 period 
making it one of the first planned developments in 
the area along with Gipps Town at Five Dock. The 
subdivision had Bourke Square at its centre and was 
first offered for sale in 1841.

Although some land was taken up little development 
took place until the area was linked by the Iron Cove 
Bridge to the city in 1882. The new bridge resulted 
in further sales and was the start of the development 
that currently typifies the area. There appear to be 
no structures remaining from the pre-1880 period of 
development.

The area between Formosa Street and South Street 
was re-subdivided in 1883 as the Tranmere Estate. 
Further re-subdivision of larger blocks continued into 
the Inter-War period and is reflected in the housing 
styles.

The most intensive phase of development in the 
Bourketown area was the Federation period. 
Speculative developments of semi-detached houses are 
concentrated closer to Victoria Road and free-standing 
Federation period houses dominate other parts of the 
conservation area. A small number of late Victorian 
houses survive, primarily in the area closer to 
Bourketown Square. The dominant Federation phase of 
development is reinforced with a good range of Inter-
War housing.

Statement of Significance

The Bourketown Conservation Area is of high value in 
reflecting the principal late Victorian and Federation 
period of development of the Drummoyne Area. The 
street layout survives from the original Bourketown 
subdivision, one of the earliest subdivisions of the area. 
The focal point of Bourketown is Bourke Square and 
it is in this vicinity that some of the finest individual 
buildings and groups of buildings are located, along 
with a small group of commercial buildings and the 
Drummoyne Public School. 

Bourketown is important for its remaining Victorian 
housing, particularly in the vicinity of Bourke Square, 
which includes substantial houses on generous 
allotments as well as a scattering of worker’s 
homes. This development is surrounded by the 
Federation housing that dominates the streetscapes 
and, importantly, includes a range of housing from 
semi-detached speculative development closer to 
Victoria Road, through to smaller freestanding houses, 
to large houses of high individual value. These are 
representative of most styles of residential development 
from the Federation period and include housing for a 
variety of social classes.

The conservation area includes a number of important 
urban buildings including four churches, a public school, 
commercial buildings and a major water reservoir all 
relating to the early twentieth century development of 
the precinct and all of high value both individually and 
for understanding the development of the area.

Future Character

The future character for this large and mixed area is 
principally to retain the strong overall heritage urban 
character of the streets with their mix of one and two 
storey houses on lots of mixed size.

Existing building stock is predominantly Victorian and 
Edwardian with some Inter-war pockets of housing 
and these characters should be retained. Buildings 
built prior to the Second World War should not be 
demolished and new buildings should retain the scale 
and overall character of the immediate area as it relates 
to bulk, form and use of materials. Given the large lot 
sizes for much of the area, additions and new buildings 
can be in a range of forms including good contemporary 
design with the emphasis on ‘fit’ into the setting. 
Garages and carports should not be added in front of 
the building line.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-203

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY Analysis - Setting

The area falls into a number of separate zones or 
precincts that are related to groups of streets.

Firstly the major north-south streets linking to Lyons 
Road: Gipps; Thompson; Tranmere and College 
Streets. These streets are wide, have long vistas, 
established street plantings and strong heritage value. 
They have a strong suburban character with a sense of 
spaciousness that relates to the scale of houses. The 
central street, Thompson Street, contains Bourketown 
Square which is a major public space of high heritage 
value that represents the first development of the 
Drummoyne area and forms a focal point in the area. 
The location of important civic buildings of high heritage 
value, such as churches and public utilities on these 
streets adds to their importance in the townscape.

The secondary north-south streets are narrower and 
have a smaller scale of housing development, greater 
use of semi-detached forms and a tighter urban fabric. 
These streets are: Ullathorne, Henley, and Formosa 
Streets and South Street (for its northern section). 
Formosa Street in particular is noted for its fine 
streetscape of semi-detached Federation housing.

The east-west streets have a completely different 
character. They are narrow (except for Day Street and 
sections of Plunket and Broughton Streets which are of 
varying widths) and contain a much tighter sub-division 
pattern with generally small blocks and far less 
pretentious houses. This is particularly seen in Bowman 
and Polding Streets. The western blocks of Polding and 
Bowman Streets and Plunkett Street contain the largest 
scattering of Victorian cottages and houses outside 
Thompson Street.

The major houses are not confined to one location 
within Bourketown, but the major groupings are in 
Thompson Street, the south end of Tranmere and South 
Streets and Lyons Road. The precinct in Thompson 
Street from Broughton Street to Bowman Street 
contains the most substantial and significant group of 
buildings, but this does not devalue the smaller scale 
buildings around it.

Another distinctive area of the Bourketown 
Conservation Area is the Lyons Road frontage from 
Formosa Street to Thompson Street. This frontage, 
which effectively forms part of the main road frontage 
rather than the residential character of the rest of the 
precinct, contains:

•  commercial buildings at both the Drummoyne 

shopping centre, Tranmere Street and Thompson 
Street corners, several of which are individually 
important and intact examples of Inter-war retail 
buildings

•  Drummoyne Fire Station

•  Drummoyne Presbyterian Church at a key visual 

location

•  blocks of Inter-war apartments of very fine proportion 

and detailing set amongst a series of substantial 
Federation and later homes which indicate the 
predominant early character of this road frontage.

Scale

The buildings fall into a range of groups. The 
predominant form for Thompson Street, South 
Street and Tranmere Street is single residences of 
significant scale. Most of Formosa Street and its side 
streets have single storey semi-detached housing 
built as speculative development. Other streets have 
small single fronted cottages or large groups of 
semi-detached dwellings generally speculatively built 
as seen for much of the length of Formosa and Edwin 
Streets and part of Day Street and Bowman Street. 

Single storey housing is dominant with two storeys 
housing usually only confined to freestanding homes on 
larger allotments or for buildings originally incorporating 
shops. 

Form

The dominant Federation period housing in the 
Bourketown Conservation Area is noted for the use of 
interesting roof forms with decorative gables providing 
interest and rhythm to the streetscape. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-204

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY Siting

Fencing

The siting of buildings in Bourketown is related to the 
scale of the building and the size of the site. The closely 
spaced semi-detached groups have small setbacks. 
Setbacks generally increase on larger allotments.

Materials and colours

Red face brickwork is the dominant material in the 
Bourketown Conservation Area. A few surviving 
Victorian buildings are rendered but this is the exception 
and these contrast to the general streetscape. The red 
tones continue in the terracotta roof tiles used either as 
a main roof material or as a highlight to the grey slate 
roofs.

Timber is generally used for verandah framing and 
joinery elements.

Colours were selected from a limited palette and 
complement the natural tones and textures of the 
materials.

Doors and Windows

Windows on contributory buildings are almost 
exclusively timber framed. The dominant Federation 
period housing has either casement or double hung 
windows. Larger openings are created by grouping two 
or three sashes together or by using French doors.

The small number of Victorian houses in the area had 
transparent fencing of either iron pickets between 
masonry posts or timber pickets. The iron picket 
fencing could be up to 1.8m high on larger blocks, 
but clear documentation of physical evidence of this 
would be needed before reproduction of fencing of that 
height was approved. Most picket fencing would be a 
maximum of 1.2m high.

The dominant Federation period housing usually had 
low masonry fencing with panels of timber pickets or 
wrought steel up to a maximum of 900mm high.

Inter-war period housing in the Bourketown 
Conservation area usually had face brick fencing with 
brick piers separated by low brick panels with horizontal 
steel pipe rails.

Subdivision

The late nineteenth and early twentieth century 
subdivision patterns are typically small allotments. 
Larger allotments are generally only found with 
surviving free standing houses or are the sites of 
churches, schools and other public buildings. The 
subdivision patterns in the Bourketown Conservation 
Area are closely related to the rhythm of the 
streetscape. 

Refer to figures App1.4 to App1.8

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-205

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY i

w
e
v
r
e
v
O

-

a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
n
w
o
t
e
k
r
u
o
B

4
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-206

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1

t
e
e
h
S

-

a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
n
w
o
t
e
k
r
u
o
B

5
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-207

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2

t
e
e
h
S

-

a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
n
w
o
t
e
k
r
u
o
B

6
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-208

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3

t
e
e
h
S

-

a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
n
w
o
t
e
k
r
u
o
B

7
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-209

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4

t
e
e
h
S

-

a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
n
w
o
t
e
k
r
u
o
B

8
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-210

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.3  Creewood Street Conservation Area 

History

Form

Creewood was a prominent house facing Concord 
Road. The land to the east of the house was developed 
in two subdivisions creating Creewood Street. The 
southern and eastern sections were subdivided in 1926 
with the northern part of the street subdivided in 1927. 
Development of Inter-War housing appears to have 
rapidly followed the subdivision. 

The houses in Creewood Street are exemplars of 
Inter-War bungalows, incorporating strong horizontal 
lines created by the low-medium pitched gables, deep 
verandahs with simple brick balustrades and heavy 
verandah piers. Verandahs are always incorporated into 
the front elevation of the houses, giving depth to the 
façade. 

Description

Siting

The development in this short street is characterised 
by intact Inter-War California bungalows. The houses 
feature multiple gables facing the street, verandahs 
across part of the front elevation, dark face brick walling 
and tiled roofs. The houses retain their landscaped 
setting with low brick fences with metal railing 
complementing the low horizontal lines of the housing. 
The turn in the street adds to the visual amenity of 
Creewood Street.

Statement of Significance

Developed in a short period from 1926, Creewood 
Street is one of the areas finest streetscapes of Inter-
War bungalows. The streetscape is remarkable for the 
integrity of the landscaping and street fencing. 

Analysis - Setting

Developed as a cul-de-sac, Creewood Street is 
a contained streetscape. The bend in the street 
contributes to the visual quality of the street. Intact 
fencing, contemporary with the houses is important to 
the setting of the houses.

Scale

Apart from infill development, the housing in Creewood 
Avenue is all single storey.

Setbacks from the front boundary are consistent. Side 
setbacks include a generous setback on one side to 
allow driveway access.

Doors and Windows

Window openings are usually divided into sets of 
casement sashes, sometimes with a flat awning and a 
decorative brick sill. Doors may be multi-paned glazed 
leafs, sometimes with pairs of doors opening to the 
verandah.

Materials and Colours

Face brick walls of liver or redbrick with commons to 
side and rear walls. Roofs are usually of terracotta 
roof tile. The gables are often trimmed with shingles or 
weatherboards. Verandahs are trimmed with bands of 
cement render and stub columns.

Carparking

Garages and carports are set well behind the building 
line.

Fencing

Fencing has brick piers between panels of brickwork 
matching the houses. Pipe rails or wrought metal panels 
join the piers. 

Refer to figure App1.9

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-211

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C

t
e
e
r
t

S
d
o
o
w
e
e
r
C

9
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-212

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.4  Drummoyne Avenue East Conservation Area

History

Analysis - Setting

The subdivision of Drummoyne House in 1894 created 
suburban allotments at Wrights Point. The proximity 
to Parramatta River attracted purchasers who could 
afford to build fine homes, most of which were oriented 
to the water. This Conservation Area includes some of 
the finest waterfront houses to survive in Drummoyne. 
It also includes the house on the southwest corner of 
Wrights Road and Drummoyne Avenue that, due to its 
corner location and elevated position, provides a visual 
link to this group and to the Drummoyne Avenue West 
Conservation Area.

5 Drummoyne Avenue is the earliest house of the 
group, probably built soon after the subdivision in 1894.  
Other houses, with the exception of 8A Drummoyne 
Avenue, followed in the next 10-15 years.

Description

This Conservation Area includes some of the more 
significant waterfront houses to survive in the 
Drummoyne Area. They retain their setting with their 
major orientation to the water. Most of the group are 
large and notable examples of the Federation Queen 
Anne style.

Many of the houses retain important elements of 
their original gardens. Boatsheds and sea walls also 
contribute to the setting of the houses.

Statement of Significance

Drummoyne Avenue East Conservation Area forms one 
of the last intact groups of waterfront residences on the 
Parramatta River and has high regional as well as local 
value. They are indicative of the major development 
form along the eastern Drummoyne waterfront which 
has been almost completely obliterated by State 
Government Planning policies since the 1970's period. 
This is the last major waterfront group in the Canada 
Bay Council area and a key group of buildings at the 
entrance to Parramatta River.

The houses in Drummoyne Avenue East Conservation 
Area respond to their proximity to the water with 
frontages to Parramatta River as well as to Drummoyne 
Avenue. Gardens are important to the setting of the 
houses. Large setbacks from Drummoyne Avenue are 
used to take advantage of water frontages. 

Scale

These are generally large houses of one to two storeys 
located on large allotments that allowed appropriate 
setbacks from side boundaries.

Form

Generally interesting roof forms incorporating hipped 
and gabled forms. The larger houses also include tower 
and turret elements

These houses use elements such as bay windows, 
projecting gabled fronts and verandahs to break down 
the overall mass of the building.

Siting

The houses in this group are sited well back from the 
street frontage taking advantage of the site depth and 
river frontage.

Materials and Colours

Roofs are either slate or terracotta tiles or a 
combination of the two. Walls are generally face 
brickwork, originally unpainted.

Doors and Windows

A variety of window forms are often used in any one 
of the Federation houses in this group. Groups of 
casement windows, usually with toplights, are dominant 
and might be contrasted with bullseye or keyhole 
windows. French doors are also used to provide access 
to balconies.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-213

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY Carparking

Garages for houses with river frontages have generally 
been located on the street to minimise impact on the 
garden setting. For other sites, garages are set back as 
far as possible from the street boundary. 

Garages and carports may be allowed in front of the 
building line subject to the merit of the design. However 
they should be located where they will have minimal 
impact on original or early garden layouts and should 
avoid blocking important views of the houses from the 
street.

Garages should not be allowed where they occupy 
more than 40% of the street boundary.

Fencing

Fencing on the street boundary should generally be not 
more than 900mm high. Where higher fencing is used, 
it should be of a transparent design such as simple iron 
or timber pickets between brick piers.

Landscape Elements Including Paving and 
Driveways

The gardens are important to the setting of the house 
and incorporate curved paths, mature trees and areas 
of lawn. The paths often incorporate a focal element 
such as a fountain or urn. 

Pools are generally located between the houses and 
the river.

Outbuildings

Outbuildings should be carefully located to avoid 
impacting on important views of houses from the street 
or the water. Where outbuildings are visible in important 
views, they should be designed to relate to the original 
house.

Small boatsheds are acceptable subject to design merit 
and approval of the relevant authority (N.S.W. Roads & 
Maritime Services). 

Refer to figure App1.10

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-214

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C

t
s
a
E
e
u
n
e
v
A
e
n
y
o
m
m
u
r
D

0
1
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-215

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.5  Drummoyne Avenue West Conservation Area 

History

Form

The subdivision of Drummoyne House in 1894 created 
suburban allotments at Wrights Point. The land around 
and including Drummoyne House was re-subdivided in 
1907 and housing was built facing the water and with 
its back to Drummoyne House. The present housing 
at 15-27 Drummoyne Avenue is an intact part of that 
prestigious sub-division. It is an important element 
in the streetscape and the continuous character of 
Drummoyne Avenue.

Description

This group of housing is from the Federation and Inter-
War periods. The group has single storey fronts with 
high sub-floor spaces taking advantage of the slope 
of the sites. The four properties at the west end of this 
group date from the 1907 subdivision. The next house 
is Post World War II and the last two houses are very 
fine Inter-war houses with high quality detailing.

Statement of Significance

This group demonstrates the sub-division of one of 
the major Drummoyne estates and is representative of 
the prevalent form of housing built in east Drummoyne 
reflecting the importance of the area. This is a remnant 
of the once contiguous Federation character of the 
area.

Objectives

Overall bulk is generally broken up with projecting wings 
either under a gabled or hipped roof. Roofs of houses 
in this conservation area have medium pitches. Hipped 
and gabled forms are used on the earlier houses with 
more simple hipped forms on later houses.

Siting

Houses are set back from Drummoyne Avenue to take 
advantage of the elevated part of the site. 

Materials and Colours

Roofs are either terracotta or glazed roof tiles or slate.
Walls are generally face brickwork in red or dark 
colours. The sub-floor is usually of sandstone or brick.

Doors and Windows

Generally timber framed with pairs or groups of 
casement and double hung sashes.

Carparking

Garages in this conservation area were originally 
located to the rear of the site and this pattern continues 
for the majority of sites in this conservation area. 

Fencing

Low masonry retaining walls on the street boundary 

Retain the Federation and Inter-War character of this 
group and their garden settings. 

Garden Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

Grassed terraces between the street boundary and 
the house with low shrubs. Mature trees are placed to 
minimise interference with the views. Driveways are 
usually single width running past the house. 

Refer to figure App1.11

Additions should be controlled to conserve the 
streetscape contribution of the group.

Analysis - Setting

The setting of these houses is elevated from 
Drummoyne Avenue. Low masonry retaining walls on 
the street boundary provide grassed terraces between 
the street and the house.

Scale

These houses are single storey with high sub-floor 
areas facing the street. First floor additions are possible 
subject to merit. These should generally incorporate the 
existing roof form facing the street. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-216

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C

t
s
a
E
e
u
n
e
v
A
e
n
y
o
m
m
u
r
D

1
1
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-217

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.6  Drummoyne Park Conservation Area

History
The land on the eastern side of the present Victoria 
Road, north of Lyons Road, was subdivided in 1881-2 
as Drummoyne Park Estate. Subsequent development 
included a number of substantial and well detailed 
Victorian Italianate houses followed by large Federation 
Arts and Crafts and Federation Queen Anne style 
housing. Much of the earlier housing was located on 
sites where elevated land provided good views of the 
harbour. This late nineteenth century development was 
reinforced by smaller Federation and Inter-War housing 
both on the original allotments of the Drummoyne Park 
Estate and on the subsequent subdivisions of the larger 
landholdings in the area.

Statement of Significance
The Drummoyne Park Estate Conservation Area, 
developed from 1881, includes substantial late 
nineteenth century homes in prestigious locations, such 
as nos. 2, 8 and 45 Wrights Road and 5-11 and 23 
Collingwood Street, interspersed among smaller early 
twentieth century housing.  The smaller scale of the early 
twentieth century housing gives the Conservation Area 
an underlying consistency of scale, materials and form 
that highlights the larger houses of the late nineteenth 
century in the streetscape. Apart from the heritage 
items within the area most of the buildings and features 
within this precinct are of high local heritage value and a 
combination of representative and rare examples of their 
period and style in the Drummoyne context.

Analysis - Setting
Larger late nineteenth century houses have prominence 
in the streetscape. The surrounding streetscape is 
dominated by smaller scaled Federation period housing.  

Scale
Two to three storey houses occupy larger sites and 
usually have a garden setting. On smaller sites, single 
storey houses dominate. Some semi-detached housing 
utilising double allotments is included in the area and 
gives the impression of larger scaled housing.

Form
Most of the housing that contributes to the heritage 
character of this Conservation Areas has prominent 
roof forms with terracotta being the dominant material 
followed by slate shingles. Facades usually include 
verandahs and elements that step forward of the main 
part of the building. This often adds interest to the roof 
form as well as the street front of the house. Many of the 
late Victorian houses incorporate bay windows.

Siting
Most groups of houses in this conservation area have 
regular setbacks from the front and side boundaries. 
Deeper setbacks on one side of many allotments has 
allowed for side driveways and provides space between 
houses. The earlier houses in the Drummoyne Park 
Estate sometimes have deeper setbacks relating to the 
larger scale of the buildings and the larger sites. 

Materials and Colours
The majority of housing in the Conservation Area has 
face brick walling with render or cement sheeting used 
as a contrast. Rendered walls are restricted to the large 
Victorian homes in this Conservation Area.

Doors and Windows
Doors and windows are usually vertically proportioned. 
Wider openings, when they occur, are divided vertically.

Carparking
Parking is generally at the rear of the property, in some 
cases taking advantage of rear street access. On 
steeply sloping sites some garages have been built into 
the retaining walls on the street front.

Fencing
A mixture of fencing is used and depends to some 
extent on the nature of the site and the character of the 
house. Masonry retaining walls of face brick or stone 
are used on sloping sites. Low masonry fences of either 
face brick or stone are common on the early twentieth 
century development. On larger houses this might 
support a higher wrought steel fence. On many late 
Federation and Inter-War houses, the brick piers are 
linked by a pipe rail. 

Landscape Elements including Paving and 
Driveways
Terraced gardens provide a setting on steeply sloping 
sites where houses are located on the high point 
to maximise views. Hedges are often used where 
increased privacy is desired. Driveways are often a pair 
of concrete strips parallel to the side boundary of the 
house. 

Refer to figures App1.12 and App1.13

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-218

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
k
r
a
P
e
n
y
o
m
m
u
r
D

2
1
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-219

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
1

t
e
e
h
S

-

a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
k
r
a
P
e
n
y
o
m
m
u
r
D

3
1
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-220

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.7  Gale Street Inter-War Californian Bungalow Group 

History

Materials and Colours

The houses are predominantly in red face brick with 
terracotta tile roofs and painted timber casement 
windows. Some of the verandahs have been infilled and 
external walls rendered.

Car Parking

The rear lanes provide car access to garages and 
carports.

Fencing

The front fencing is not consistent, with a mix of low 
masonry walls, timber pickets of various styles and 
metal palisade fencing.

Landscape Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

Front gardens are dominated by lawns with perimeter 
shrub planting with some hedging. There are some 
street trees with Paperbarks predominant.

Refer to figure App1.14

Mortlake township began with the establishment of the 
Australian Gas Light Company’s works at Mortlake in 
1886. Subdivision of the township took place in the 
following two years. The group of houses at 36-44 Gale 
Street were built in the 1920’s and appear to have been 
a speculative development.

Description

The Gale Street Conservation area is a group of five 
Inter War Californian bungalows all designed to the 
same pattern with double gable to the front and an inset 
verandah. The houses have gardens to the front with 
low brick walls to the street. Most have been altered to 
some extent.

Statement of Significance

The Gale Street Conservation area is a good example 
row of five Inter-War Californian style bungalows that 
form an important group in the streetscape and that 
have historical associations with the AGL gasworks and 
the development of the Mortlake Township.

Analysis - Setting

The group is set on identical blocks along a tree lined 
street with rear lane access to garages and carports. 
The adjoining scale is predominantly single storey with 
a mix of Victorian and Federation cottages with some 
later infill development.

Scale

All the houses in the group are single storey with no 
second floor additions. There is some later two storey 
development close by. 

Form

The group is in the classic Californian bungalow style 
in dark face brick with double gables, low pitched roofs 
and low, brick verandahs to the front.

Siting

The front setbacks are the same with a small garden to 
the front. The setback of adjoining houses varies.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-221

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY l

p
u
o
r
G
w
o
a
g
n
u
B
n
a
n
r
o
f
i
l

i

a
C

r
a
W

-
r
e
t
n
I

t
e
e
r
t

S
e
a
G

l

4
1
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-222

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.8  Gale Street Victorian Housing Group 

History

Materials and Colours

Mortlake township began with the establishment of the 
Australian Gas Light Company’s works at Mortlake in 
1886. Subdivision of the township took place in the 
following 2 years. The houses at 37-39 Gale Street 
were built soon after the subdivision of the township.

Description

The Gale Street Conservation area is a group of two, 
single storey, Victorian cottages with symmetrical front 
verandahs. 

Statement of Significance

The Gale Street Conservation area is a good example 
of two Victorian cottages that form an important group 
in the streetscape that have historical associations with 
the AGL gasworks and the subdivision of the Mortlake 
Township.

The houses are in different materials. 37 Gale Street 
is in painted brick with high gables to the side and has 
a bullnosed verandah with a corrugated metal roof. 39 
Gale Street is in weatherboard with a concrete tile roof.

Car Parking

The rear lane provides car access to rear garages and 
carports.

Fencing

The front fencing varies with a metal tube and wire 
fence to 39 Gale Street and no fence to 37 Gale Street.

Landscape Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

The small front gardens are laid to lawn with some 
shrub planting.

Analysis - Setting

Refer to figure App1.15

The group is set on similar blocks along a tree lined 
street with rear lane access to garages and carports. 
The adjoining scale is predominantly single storey with 
a mix of Victorian and Federation cottages with some 
later infill development.

Scale

The houses are single storey with no second floor 
additions. There is some later two storey development 
close by. 

Form

The group is in the Victorian cottage form style with 
double fronted elevations and front verandahs

Siting

The front setbacks are the same with a small garden to 
the front. The setback of adjoining houses varies.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-223

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY i

p
u
o
r
G
g
n
s
u
o
H
n
a
i
r
o
t
c
V

i

t
e
e
r
t

S
e
a
G

l

5
1
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-224

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.9  Gears Avenue Conservation Area 

History

Form

Gears Garden Estate was subdivided in 1924 creating 
lots generally with 50 foot frontages to Gears Avenue. 
The present 17-35 Gears Avenue were re-subdivided 
in 1926 to create allotments with 40 foot frontages. The 
housing in the Gears Avenue Conservation Area all 
appear to have been built in a short period following the 
subdivisions.

Description

This group of Inter-war houses is an intact group of 
predominantly bungalow influenced houses with one 
very good example of the Californian Bungalow style 
set high up on the rise and well above the street.

Statement of Significance

The Gears Avenue, Drummoyne Conservation Area 
is a very good example of housing from the Inter-War 
period and has survived intact with setting, fences and 
detailing. The vista down the hill towards the water 
typifies the development of Drummoyne with Lyons 
Road on the ridge and streets falling towards the water. 
The regular division of the allotments, consistency of 
materials and scale of the housing combines with the 
slope of the land to create an attractive streetscape.

Objectives

Original details of houses should be retained with 
fencing and garden settings to enhance the character of 
the street. Additions should reflect the character of the 
existing buildings in order to retain the streetscape and 
heritage value of the streetscape. Garages and carports 
should not be added in front of the building line.

Analysis - Setting

Housing has a consistent setback behind low street 
fencing and gardens. One side of each allotment has 
a greater setback to allow a driveway to go to the rear 
yard.

Scale

The housing in Gears Avenue is mainly single storey 
facing the street.

The front of the houses are generally broken down with 
a verandah section and a projecting room with a gabled 
or hipped roof. The repetition of gables and hipped 
forms is an important part of the streetscape. The 
verandahs have low horizontal proportions with heavy 
masonry piers.

Siting

The houses in this group have regular setbacks from 
the street boundary. A deeper setback on one side 
boundary of most houses provides space between 
houses and vehicular access to the rear of the site.

Materials and Colours

Walls are generally of face brickwork with use of 
battened fibro on gables as a contrasting element. The 
roofs are typically glazed tiles.

Doors and Windows

Timber casements in pairs or groups of three or double 
hung windows in pairs.

Carparking

Single driveways with garages or carports located well 
behind the building line.

Fencing

Many original fences have survived in this conservation 
area. They are typically low street fences with brick 
piers and panels sometimes using pipe rails between 
piers.

Landscape Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

Single driveways with concrete driving strips typically 
run along the side boundary past the house. Gardens 
to these houses often include a curved path to the front 
door and hedge type plants behind the front fence. 

Subdivision

This conservation area has a regular subdivision pattern 
of 40 and 50 feet frontages (12.192m and 15.25m). 

Refer to figure App1.16

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-225

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
e
u
n
e
v
A
s
r
a
e
G

6
1
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-226

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.10  Gipps Street Conservation Area 

History

Form

Of this small group of buildings, Euroka, at 9 Gipps 
Street, Drummoyne is the earliest, existing, with 
its tennis court, on the site in 1912 when the block 
bounded by Gipps, Therry, Miller and Market Streets 
was subdivided. The remaining houses in the group 
appear to have been built soon after the subdivision.

Description

This is a small group of very fine timber and brick 
dwellings that formed part of the major subdivision 
around Bourketown but which are now separated 
from the main conservation area by altered and 
unsympathetic development.

Statement of Significance

This group forms a fine group stepping down the slope 
towards the water, each sited with good views towards 
the city and set up from the road to maximise their 
setting. They form a complete block which adds to their 
integrity. They demonstrate the dominant form of the 
architectural style of Drummoyne and make a very fine 
contribution to the streetscape and the important views 
down Gipps Street to the water.

Objectives

All of the buildings in this small group should be 
retained in their predominant early twentieth century 
form. Additions should respect the character of the 
buildings and first floor additions should be controlled 
to retain the heritage value of the buildings. Garages 
and carports should not be constructed in front of the 
building line.

Analysis - Setting

The slope of Gipps Street towards Iron Cove Bay 
contributes to the setting of these houses. Euroka 
at 9 Gipps Street, as the house that preceded the 
subdivision, was the dominant building in the group until 
2005.

Scale

The houses in this conservation area include one and 
two storey houses with the height relative to the size of 
the allotment.

These are free standing houses with hipped roofs 
over the main rectangular block of the house. The 
hipped roofs are relieved in most of the houses by a 
projecting gabled wing facing the street. For all but 
one of the houses the roof forms incorporate hipped 
and gabled forms. Slate with terracotta tile trim is the 
dominant original roof material, although this has been 
replaced on some roofs. Glazed tiling to the roofs is 
not original and could in due course be replaced with 
more appropriate roofing materials. Verandahs are 
incorporated into the front elevation, usually offset by a 
gabled wing. 

Materials and Colours

Face brickwork walls dominate, trimmed with battened 
fibro to the gables. Original roofs surviving in the group 
are slate with terracotta trim. Verandahs are framed with 
timber incorporating decorative fretwork and balanced 
by decorative timberwork to the gables. 

Doors and Windows

Various forms of windows and doors are used but are 
not all combined in a single dwelling. The proportion 
of wall space to fenestrations is important, as is the 
vertical proportions of most of the openings.

Carparking

Carparking is set well behind the front building 
alignment. Driveways utilise side streets where 
possible, otherwise are restricted to single width. 

Fencing

Original fencing is reasonably low and usually 
incorporates a masonry base of either face brick or 
sandstone. Transparent panels of either metal or timber 
pickets are used between piers. 

Subdivision

Apart from Euroka at 9 Gipps Street that preceded the 
subdivision, the allotments of this Conservation Area 
were of regular size with 40-44 foot frontages.

Landscape Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

Front gardens are dominated by lawn with plantings of 
low shrubs. 

Refer to figure App.17

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-227

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C

t
e
e
r
t

S
s
p
p
G

i

7
1
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-228

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.11  Hampden Road Conservation Area

History

Future Character

The north and south sides of Hampden Road were 
subdivided in two separate subdivisions in 1915. 
The north side of the road was part of the Five Dock 
Estate subdivision and the south side was part of 
the Liryclea subdivision. Apart from the Victorian 
house Faleofa, facing Lyons Road, that preceded the 
1915 subdivisions, most of the development of this 
conservation area followed soon after the subdivisions. 
Faleofa was further subdivided in 1928 prior to the 
construction of shops on the corner of Lyons and 
Hampden Roads.

Description

This is a predominantly residential group with largely 
intact houses from the late Federation and Inter-War 
periods as well as the Victorian house Feleofa and 
some Inter-War shops on the corner of Lyons Road. 

The houses include a very fine group of c1915 houses 
of matching style with terracotta shingle roofs, well 
set back from the road in garden settings. The group 
represents the mix of development that took place in 
the Edwardian period with houses ranging from modest 
but well detailed semi-detached residences to more 
impressive two storey houses through to idiosyncratic 
arts and crafts cottages. The shops on Lyons Road are 
typical of the Inter-War period. As a substantial Victorian 
house, Faleofa provides a contrast to the group.

Statement of Significance

The Hampden Road, Drummoyne Conservation area 
is one of the rare surviving streetscapes on a main 
road in the municipality. Located on the main road 
through Drummoyne and Five Dock this group is of 
high visual value. The group also includes a substantial 
and attractive Victorian residence, Faleofa, illustrating 
the earlier development of the area.  The commercial 
building on the corner of Lyons Road and Hampden 
Road demonstrates the importance of these roads in 
the local transport network.

The Federation to Inter-war housing should be retained 
without demolition and in its historic form to the street 
with retention of facade materials and details. Additions 
should reflect the character of the existing buildings to 
retain the streetscape and the heritage value. Garages 
and carports should not be added in front of the building 
line.

Analysis - Setting

The houses in this group have reasonably deep 
setbacks from the street. Street trees and the slope of 
Hampden Road contribute to the setting of this group. 

Scale

This conservation area has a consistent single storey 
scale to Hampden Road with the larger two storey 
residence Faleofa on a larger site fronting Lyons Road.

Form

The front of the houses are generally broken down with 
a verandah section and a projecting room with a gabled 
or hipped roof.  Roofs include low to medium pitched 
hipped and gabled forms, most clad with terracotta tiles 
or slate. The commercial building contrasts with a solid 
parapeted form. 

The facades typically incorporate verandahs with 
heavy masonry piers. Awnings are also used to provide 
interest in the street facades.

Siting

Houses fronting Hampden Road have regular front and 
side setbacks. The commercial building at the corner of 
Lyons Road contrasts with these and with Faleofa by 
having no street setback. 

Materials and Colours

Dark face brickwork is almost exclusively used in this 
conservation area. This blends well with the terracotta 
and slate roofs. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-229

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY Doors and Windows

Windows are usually timber casements in pairs or 
groups of three or double hung windows in groups.

Carparking

Single driveways with garages or carports located well 
behind the building line.

Fencing

Surviving original fencing is generally low brick or 
sandstone fencing.

Landscape Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

Most houses in the group have established gardens 
with trees and shrubs in the front garden.

Subdivision

The houses in this group fronting Hampden Road have 
a reasonably regular allotment size. 

Refer to figure App1.18

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-230

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
d
a
o
R
n
e
d
p
m
a
H

8
1
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-231

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
CA.12  Lindfield Avenue Conservation Area 

History

Siting

Lindfield Avenue was created by a 1928 subdivision 
and was originally called Ardath Avenue. The Inter-War 
California Bungalows that line this street were built soon 
after.

Description

Lindfield Avenue is a short cul-de-sac featuring facing 
rows of consistent Inter-War California Bungalows, set 
in period gardens. The buildings display a high degree 
of integrity, with one notable exception. The street 
facades of the buildings are remarkably intact, as are 
fences and period garden features.

Statement of Significance

The Lindfield Avenue Conservation Area is an excellent 
local example of an Inter-War subdivision, in an 
area noted for its 1920s and 1930s streetscapes. It 
is also considered one of the best examples in the 
Sydney region of a streetscape of Inter-War California 
Bungalows. The high consistency of design suggests 
development within a very short time span. The street 
facades of the buildings are remarkably intact, as are 
fences and period garden features. The subdivision 
consists of a street and is unusual locally for its cul-de-
sac design.

The houses have regular setbacks from the street. A 
deeper setback from one side allows vehicular access 
to the rear of the allotments.

Materials and Colours

Houses that have not been altered have face brick 
trimmed with render to lintels and battened fibro to the 
gables complemented by terracotta tiled roofs.

Doors and Windows

Windows are usually timber casements sashes in 
groups of two or three, often with horizontal sun hoods. 
Later houses have groups of double hung windows, 
sometimes in a chamfered bay. Doors are often glazed 
and sometimes are paired.

Carparking

Garages and carports are usually set well back from the 
front building alignment.

Fencing

Original fencing is usually low brick panels between 
brick piers. Metal rails or wrought metal panels are 
sometimes used between piers.

Analysis - Setting

Designed as a cul-de-sac, Lindfield Avenue is an 
enclosed streetscape. Street plantings are mixed with 
some clipped hedges and more recent plantings of 
native plants.

Landscape Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

Street trees are important in this conservation area. 
Front gardens are usually dominated by lawn with low 
plantings of shrubs to provide interest. 

Refer to figure App1.19

Scale

Apart from one rear addition, this is a street of single 
storey houses.

Form

The Inter-War California Bungalow form is exclusively 
used in this area. It features low to medium pitched 
gables facing the street with a front verandah an 
important part of the main elevation of the house.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-232

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
e
u
n
e
v
A
d
e
i
f
d
n
L

i

l

9
1
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-233

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.13  Majors Bay Road Conservation Area 

History

Analysis - Setting

Commercial development in the early twentieth century 
tended to be in ribbons lining major transport routes. 
The development along Majors Bay Road followed this 
pattern, taking advantage of the importance of the road 
in connecting Queens Road to the industrial areas at 
Mortlake. It also relied on the importance of Wellbank 
Street to provide a direct link to North Strathfield 
Railway Station.

On the east side of Majors Bay Road between 
Wellbank Street and Jones Street the Terrabona 
Estate subdivision of 1915 appears to have provided 
the impetus for commercial development along Majors 
Bay Road. The precinct was planned as a commercial 
boulevard to complement the Inter-War housing boom 
in Concord.

Description

The commercial precinct of Majors Bay Road between 
48-114 Majors Bay Road on the west side and 23-95 
Majors Bay Road on the east side is dominated by 
Inter-War commercial development. The buildings are 
generally two storey with retail premises on the ground 
floor and offices or flats on the upper floor. Parapet 
walls front the street on most buildings and the floors 
are divided on the facades by cantilevered awnings. 
Some residential buildings survive on the west side of 
Majors Bay Road.

Statement of Significance

This commercial precinct reflects the importance of 
Majors Bay Road and Wellbank Street in providing 
connections from the main transport links of Queens 
Road to the south and Strathfield North Railway station 
to the west with the industrial area of Mortlake and with 
the growing residential development of Cabarita from 
the Inter-War period to the late twentieth century.

The Majors Bay Road commercial precinct is a good 
quality streetscape dominated by Inter-War commercial 
buildings. The consistent scale and rhythm of facades, 
and use of materials contributes to an attractive 
streetscape.

The Majors Bay Road commercial precinct provides 
a focal point for the local community and continues to 
function as a popular meeting place. 

This conservation area derives its importance from its 
location at the junction of two important local roads. 

Scale

Two storey development is dominant with ground 
floor used for retailing and the upper floor for office or 
residential use. A few single storey shops and houses 
are scattered through the group.

Form

These are two storey buildings usually with no setback 
from the street or side boundaries creating a continuous 
wall to the street. The buildings are usually parapeted. 
Roofs are usually tiled. The buildings have engaged 
piers at regular intervals reflecting traditional structural 
spans.

Recessed verandahs were incorporated into the upper 
floor of many of the commercial buildings, some of 
these have been filled in. The lower floors of the earlier 
buildings in the group generally have commercial 
shopfronts.

The freestanding buildings in the conservation area are 
more residential in form with hipped and gabled roofs 
and usually with front verandahs.

Siting

Most buildings in this group have no setbacks from the 
front and side boundaries.

Materials and Colours

Masonry is used for most buildings. Face brickwork 
trimmed with rendered or decorative details was the 
most common wall treatment. Rendered panels in the 
parapet provide space for signs. Other buildings have 
rendered facades with decorative rendered details. 

Doors and Windows

Windows to the upper floors are often in square or 
arched openings, infilling the original open verandahs. 
Some buildings retain the French doors opening to the 
upper verandahs. 

Refer to figure App1.20

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-234

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
d
a
o
R
y
a
B
s
r
o
a
M

j

0
2
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-235

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.14  Marlborough and Tavistock Streets Conservation Area

History

The South Hythe subdivision of the 1870s included 
all the land west of Lyons Road, between the present 
Victoria Road and Bayswater Road. It included 
Tavistock, Marlborough and Westbourne Streets, 
establishing the general street layout that survives to 
the present day. Many of the initial purchases were for 
a number of allotments. Speculative development and 
subsequent subdivision in the Federation and Inter-War 
periods created rows of housing of similar scale, form 
and materials. 

The housing on the southeast side of Tavistock Street 
and from 21 to 39 Westbourne Street appear to 
have been groups of speculative development built 
in the Federation period. Groups of semi-detached 
houses have since been subdivided to allow individual 
ownership. 43 Marlborough Street also dates from this 
period.

The houses at 4-8 Tavistock Street were probably 
built soon after a re-subdivision of land fronting the 
present Victoria Road in 1915. Those at 10-12 Tavistock 
Street along with 26-28 Marlborough Street are also 
part of one development comprising detached and 
semi-detached houses.

Statement of Significance

The Marlborough and Tavistock Streets, Drummoyne 
Conservation Area is of significance for its largely intact 
early twentieth century residential development. The 
group has an overall homogeneity due to consistent 
use of materials, scale, setbacks and forms. Groups of 
speculative development also contribute to the regular 
rhythms in the streetscape. 

Objectives

To retain the high level of integrity and homogenous 
character of the group.

To ensure new development does not detract from 
established rhythms in the streetscape created by the 
group.

Analysis - Setting

Groups of houses within each block have regular 
setbacks. The setbacks of the groups of semi-detached 
houses are usually less than for the free standing 
houses. 

Plantings of street trees as well as trees in front 
gardens adds to the amenity of this conservation area.

Description

Scale

The character of the Marlborough and Tavistock Streets 
Conservation Area is defined by:

This conservation area has a dominant single storey 
scale facing the street. 

•  a consistent row of speculative semi-detached 

Federation houses in Westbourne Street, 

Form

•  consistent Federation housing, both semi-detached 

and free standing, on the southeastern side of 
Tavistock Street including a very good group of 
speculative semi-detached Edwardian houses 
towards Victoria Road.

•  a group of Inter-War bungalows on the northwest 

side of Tavistock Street between Victoria Road and 
Marlborough Street, extending along Marlborough 
Street.

•  consistent Federation housing on the northeast side 

of Marlborough Street.

The housing in the Conservation Area is predominantly 
of c.1910 to 1930 construction. It has a consistent 
character dominated by single storey housing of dark 
face brick, terracotta and slate roofing, hipped and 
gabled roof forms and front verandahs.

The groups of houses within this conservation area 
have regular form and massing. Front verandahs are 
an important element of the front of the houses. Gabled 
elements are used in most of the roofs as either a 
complement to the main hipped roof or as the main roof 
form facing the street. 

Materials and Colours

Terracotta and/or slate are the dominant materials for 
roofs and are complemented by face brick walls with 
some rendered and/or battened fibro sheet for contrast. 
Verandahs have face brick piers and balustrades with 
timber posts. Driveways are formed with concrete strips.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-236

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY Doors and Windows

Casement windows are common with some use of 
double hung sashes. French doors are also used to 
provide access to verandahs. Front doors usually 
have toplights and, where space permits, might have 
sidelights.

Carparking

Some freestanding houses have space for parking at 
the rear of the allotment. Many of the semi-detached 
houses have no space for on-site parking that does not 
intrude on the front garden.

Fencing

Original fencing is usually low allowing good views from 
the footpath to the houses. Fencing often incorporates 
masonry elements including sandstone and low face 
brick walls, often with pipe rails. More recent fencing 
has a variety of picket fencing.

Landscape Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

Street trees are important to the character of this area 
and are reinforced with mature trees in front gardens. 
Front gardens should incorporate low shrubs and lawn 
areas. 

Refer to figure App1.21 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-237

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
s
t
e
e
r
t

i

S
k
c
o
t
s
v
a
T
d
n
a

h
g
u
o
r
o
b
l
r
a
M

1
2
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-238

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.15  Mons Street and Boronia Avenue Conservation Area

History

Form

This conservation area comprised two subdivisions; the 
Sunlight Estate subdivision of 1926 creating Mons Road 
and the Boronia Avenue subdivision of 1927.

Description

The Mons Street and Boronia Avenue Conservation 
Area is dominated by Inter-War California Bungalow 
style housing creating a regular rhythm of gables in 
the streetscape. Street plantings of box hedge in Mons 
Street have been pruned ensuring the houses have a 
close relationship to the street.

Statement of Significance

The Mons St and Boronia Avenue Conservation 
Area contains a very intact group of Inter-war houses 
representing the major sub-division of the Municipality 
that took place during this period. The group is one of 
a small number of excellent groups in the Five Dock/
Russell Lea area that demonstrate the pattern of 
sub-division of the Municipality and which contain a very 
fine representative group of houses from one period, 
mostly with intact settings and detailing. Most houses in 
the area have not been substantially altered.

Objectives

The high level of integrity of this group is a key 
feature, which should be retained. With only one or 
two significant alterations to significant properties there 
should be no demolition of existing early housing, 
controls on first floor additions to retain the character 
of housing and retention of façade details such as 
windows and wall treatments. Garages and carports 
should not be added in front of the building line.

Analysis - Setting

The houses in this conservation area have regular 
setbacks from front boundaries. Side setbacks are 
wider on one side to allow vehicular access. 

Street trees are restricted to clipped box hedges.

Scale

The housing in this conservation area was originally 
single storey development, consistent with the low 
horizontal character of the Inter-War California 
Bungalow style.

The Inter-War California Bungalow style that dominates 
this Conservation Area has strong low-medium pitched 
gabled roof forms facing the street. Verandahs are 
incorporated into the front elevations and emphasise 
the low horizontal lines of the houses.

Materials and Colours

Face brick walls trimmed with rendered lintels and 
battened fibro gables. Original roofs are of terracotta 
tiles. 

Doors and Windows

Windows facing the street are grouped sets of 
casement sashes, often with horizontal sunhoods. Front 
doors are simple glazed doors, sometimes in pairs.

Carparking

Carparking is provided well behind the building line of 
most houses. 

Fencing

Original surviving fencing is low face brick fencing of 
piers and panels. The low brick panels usually had a 
metal pipe or panel above.

Landscape Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

Single driveways to the side of the house. Front 
gardens are dominated by lawns with low shrubs 
providing interest. Street plantings are restricted to 
clipped hedges. 

Refer to figure App1.22

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-239

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
e
u
n
e
v
A
a
n
o
r
o
B
d
n
a

i

t
e
e
r
t

S
s
n
o
M

2
2
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-240

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.16  Moore Street Conservation Area 

History

Form

The Lyonsville subdivision of the 1880s created Moore 
Street and Short Street. Development of small cottages 
followed through to the Inter-War period.

Most houses have simple rectangular forms with hipped 
roof forms relieved by gabled elements. Verandahs 
provide depth to the front elevations of the houses.

Description

Materials and Colours

Weatherboard and face brick are the common wall 
materials in this group. Roofs were originally either 
corrugated steel or terracotta tiles. 

Doors and Windows

Windows are usually in vertically proportioned openings. 
Double hung windows are most common with sets of 
casement windows used in some later houses. Front 
doorcases usually incorporate toplights and, on larger 
houses, sidelights.

Carparking

Where space allows, car parking has been set behind 
the building line. Few carports and garages have 
been located in front of the main building line in this 
conservation area.

Fencing

Original surviving fencing includes low masonry fencing 
of either sandstone or face brick. Some reproduction 
picket fencing has been introduced.

Landscaping Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

Front gardens are usually dominated by lawn with low 
plantings of shrubs to provide interest. 

Refer to figure App1.23

The Moore Street Conservation area encompasses a 
range of building styles and periods of construction, 
typifying the pattern of development of the central 
areas of Drummoyne. The earlier development relates 
to waterfront activity and extends from late nineteenth 
century through to the Inter-War period with several 
fine bungalow influenced cottages and semi-detached 
buildings. The street also contains a very good range of 
timber buildings from the first decade of the twentieth 
century or possibly earlier. On the corner of Short Street 
is a two storey store and commercial building that 
provides a focal point in the streetscape.

Statement of Significance

The Moore Street Conservation Area includes a variety 
of houses that, while modest, display fine detailing and 
varied forms that are not generally seen in Drummoyne. 
Buildings of particular interest in this conservation 
area are the large timber house at no 40, the two 
storey corner store and residence, one of three very 
good examples in the municipality, the fine timber 
houses, and several very modest timber and fibro 
cottages. Together, these buildings represent the early 
development of the street and its lower status than the 
south side of Lyons Rd.

Analysis - Setting

Moore Street has a gradual slope down from Lyons 
Road. Groups of cottages have fairly regular setbacks 
from the street. The two storey shop at the corner of 
Short Street provides contrast with no setback from 
the street frontages. Street trees also contribute to the 
amenity of the street.

Scale

Single storey scale is dominant in this conservation 
area.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-241

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C

t
e
e
r
t

S
e
r
o
o
M

3
2
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-242

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.17  Mortlake Workers' Housing Group

History

Siting

Mortlake township began with the establishment of the 
Australian Gas Light Company’s works at Mortlake in 
1886. Subdivision of the township took place in the 
following 2 years. The houses at 46-50 Gale Street 
were built soon after the subdivision of the township 
closely followed by the houses at 4-8 Tennyson Road.

Description

A group of single storey houses from the late Victorian 
and Federation periods.

The front setbacks vary due to the angled nature of the 
lots with small gardens to the front.

Materials and Colours

The houses are in a variety of materials with timber 
weatherboards, rendered masonry and stone. Roofs 
are in tile and corrugated metal. 8 Tennyson Street 
is unusual in being in timber with the boards cut to 
appear as stone. 48 Gale Street is in sandstone with an 
Italianate style verandah with decorative lacework.

Statement of Significance

Car parking

The rear lanes provide car access to rear garages and 
carports.

Fencing

The front fencing varies with masonry walls, picket and 
timber fences or with the garden open to the footpath.

Landscape Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

Small front gardens generally laid to lawn with some 
shrub planting

Refer to figure App1.24

The Tennyson Road conservation area is an interesting 
group of workers’ housing from the late Victorian and 
Federation period directly relating to the development 
of the AGL gasworks and the establishment of the 
Mortlake township. The group makes an important 
contribution to the streetscape and forms a precinct of 
great charm and character.

Analysis - Setting

The group is set on various size blocks at the corner 
of the two streets with rear lane access to garages and 
carports. The adjoining scale is predominantly single 
storey with a mix of Victorian and Federation cottages 
with some later infill development.

Scale

The houses are single storey with no second floor 
additions. There is some later, two storey development 
close by. 

Form

The group is in the Victorian and Federation cottage 
form style with double fronted elevations and front 
verandahs or gables.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-243

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY p
u
o
r
G
g
n
s
u
o
H

i

'

s
r
e
k
r
o
W
e
k
a
l
t
r
o
M

4
2
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-244

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
CA.18  Park Avenue Conservation Area

History

Siting

Longbottom Stockade was established in the eighteenth 
century as an overnight detention centre for convicts 
on their journey between Sydney and Parramatta. 
From 1840 to 1842 it was used to house 58 French 
speaking Canadian rebels. A ramshackle settlement 
gradually grew around the stockade that was gradually 
falling into disrepair. In 1843 the Village of Longbottom 
was laid out to formalise the settlement and included 
the south side of the present Park Avenue. The large 
allotments from this settlement generally survive on the 
south side of Park Avenue, although the west end was 
re-subdivided in 1927.

Description

A grouping of early homes on large allotments, 
generally well set back from the street. The group 
includes a number of Victorian villas, all enjoying an 
outlook over the park opposite.

Most of the contributory houses in this group have 
generous setbacks from the front boundaries. 

Materials and Colours

Masonry is the dominant wall material with render used 
on some of the earlier homes. Roofs are either slate or 
tiled.

Doors and Windows

Vertically proportioned double hung windows are most 
common in this conservation area. Front doorcases 
incorporate toplights and sidelights. French doors are 
also used with verandahs.

Carparking

Garages and carports have usually been set behind the 
front building line of contributory houses.

Statement of Significance

Fencing

Only one original fence survives in this group, an iron 
palisade fence with sandstone gateposts at 2 Park 
Avenue. 

Landscape Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

Street trees add to the amenity of the area. Gardens 
are usually generous and incorporate lawns with mature 
trees and shrubs. 

Refer to figure App1.25

Park Avenue, Concord is a notable group of heritage 
homes on large allotments, enjoying an outlook over 
public parkland. It includes a number of outstanding 
Victorian villas with large front gardens, rare for 
Concord. The large lots and deep setbacks are unique 
in the Council area. The group has considerable 
aesthetic and historical significance.

Analysis - Setting

Goddard Park on the north side of Park Avenue 
provides a setting for this conservation area. Street 
plantings and large front gardens reinforce the amenity 
provided by the park.

Scale

Park Avenue includes larger one and two storey 
houses, usually on large allotments.

Form

The houses in this conservation area have a variety of 
forms. Most of the original houses in the group were 
built with generous verandahs on the front of the house 
taking advantage of the northerly aspect and view of 
Goddard Park.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-245

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
e
u
n
e
v
A
k
r
a
P

5
2
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-246

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
CA.19  Parklands Estate Conservation Area 

History

Form

Parklands Estate, between Lyons Road and Barnstaple 
Road, was subdivided in 1927 creating Bennett Avenue 
and a cul-de-sac, Mitchell Street. This small group of 
houses were developed between 1927 and the late 
1930s.

Description

The buildings stylistically are predominantly derivatives 
of Californian Bungalows with several later houses from 
the immediate post World War Two period at the end 
of the cul-de-sac which add to the group. All are fine 
if modest examples of the style and reflect the pattern 
of further sub-division that took place as larger estates 
were gradually broken up.

Statement of Significance

Developed in a short period from 1927, Parklands 
Estate has high heritage value locally as an intact 
group within an intact streetscape setting reflecting an 
excellent range of Inter-war housing types. The group is 
complemented by street planting, fencing and gardens.

Future Character

The high level of integrity of this group is a key feature 
which should be retained. With only one or two 
significant alterations to significant properties there 
should be no demolition of existing Inter-war housing, 
controls on first floor additions to retain the character 
of housing and retention of facade details such as 
windows and wall treatments. The important street 
planting should be retained. Garages and carports 
should not be added in front of the building line.

Analysis - Setting

The Parklands Estate has a relatively enclosed 
streetscape dominated by mature street trees. 

Scale

Single storey scale is dominant, consistent with the low 
horizontal emphasis of the Inter-war housing styles in 
this estate. 

The houses in the Parklands Estate usually have 
multiple gables and include a deep verandah to offset a 
projecting room on one side of the street front. 

Low-medium pitched roofs of terracotta tiles with 
multiple gables provide rhythm to the streetscape. 
Houses in the group from the later part of the Inter-war 
period have simple hipped roofs with glazed tiles.

Siting

Development in the Parklands Estate has a regular 
street setback. Side setbacks include a wider setback 
on one side to allow for vehicular access. 

Doors and Windows

Windows are usually arranged in groups with 
bungalows having sets of casement windows. Later 
houses in the Parklands Estate have grouped double 
hung sash windows.

Materials and Colours

Terracotta roof tiles and dark face brick walls with light 
coloured rendered trim are typical of this streetscape. 
Windows are generally timber framed.

Carparking

Garages are usually located well behind the building 
line so that they are not visible in the streetscape.

Fencing

Many houses have reproduction picket fencing which, 
while not authentic to the Inter-war character of the 
houses, provides cohesion to the streetscape. 

Landscape Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

Front gardens incorporate large areas of lawn with 
some planting of shrubs. Driveways are single width 
usually located to the side of the allotments.

Subdivision

The regularity of the original subdivision is important in 
establishing the rhythm of the streetscape. 

Refer to figure App1.26

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-247

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
e
t
a
t
s
E
s
d
n
a
k
r
a
P

l

6
2
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-248

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.20  Powell's Estate Conservation Area 

History

Form

Powell’s Estate was subdivided in 1886 and included 
housing allotments with regular frontages. The 
allotments were wider further away from Parramatta 
Road. Rear lanes were incorporated into the 
subdivision, originally providing access for night soil 
collection. Due to the narrow allotment width (20 feet), 
many houses were built on double allotments. The 
main period of development of the estate continued 
through the late Victorian and Federation period. Much 
of this housing has survived through to the twenty-first 
century, except where removed to make way for the 
development of the M4.

Description

Powell’s Estate is an area of late Victorian housing 
interspersed with Federation and Inter-War period 
housing on small allotments. The development includes 
a mixture of large individual homes and semi-detached 
housing. Street plantings add to the amenity of the 
area.

Statement of Significance

The Powell’s Estate Conservation Area is a rare local 
example of Victorian period development. A number of 
the original Victorian homes survive, including some 
fine villas. The area retains considerable historical 
significance.

Analysis - Setting

The Powell’s Estate has regular sized allotments on a 
rectilinear street layout. Street trees provide amenity to 
the area. Lanes now allow vehicular access to the rear 
of the allotments.

Scale

Single storey housing is dominant. A few one and a 
half and two storey houses are located on double 
allotments. A notable one and a half storey group faces 
Concord Road.

The houses in this conservation area include free 
standing and semi-detached forms. Most have a 
simple rectilinear footprint to the main front wing and 
incorporate a verandah in the street elevation. Roofs 
are usually hipped, sometimes incorporating a gable as 
a feature. 

Siting

Front setbacks are reasonably uniform along each 
street. Some larger houses have greater setbacks. Side 
setbacks are small, possibly as a result of the small 
allotments.

Materials and Colours

Rendered masonry is used for most of the Victorian 
houses and is complemented by slate roofs (where 
the original roofing survives). Later houses are face 
brick with tiled roofs. There are a small number of 
weatherboard houses with corrugated steel roofs.

Doors and Windows

Windows are vertically proportioned usually with timber 
double hung sashes. Some of the Victorian houses 
incorporate bay window elements. A few later homes 
have sets of timber casement sashes. Front doors 
usually incorporate a toplight and, in larger homes, 
sidelights.

Carparking

The rear lanes provide access for parking at the rear of 
the properties.

Fencing

Few original fences survive. Iron palisades might be 
expected for some of the larger Victorian houses. 
Smaller cottages could be expected to have timber 
picket fences. Later houses appear to have used brick 
fencing with low brick panels between brick piers.

Landscape Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

Front gardens are dominated by lawns with plantings of 
low shrubs.

Refer to figure App1.27

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-249

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
e
t
a
t
s
E
s

'
l
l

e
w
o
P

7
2
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-250

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.21  Sailsbury Street Housing Group

History

Materials and Colours

This group of houses is located on the 1886 
Beaconsfield Square subdivision. They include cottages 
built soon after the subdivision through to the Inter-War 
period.

The houses are in different materials. Traditional 
materials of weatherboard or face brick is used for walls 
and, originally, corrugated steel or terracotta tiles for the 
roof.

Description

Car parking

Some of the cottages have sufficient side setbacks to 
provide access for rear garages. The narrow street 
setbacks limit parking in front of the houses. 

Fencing

No original fencing survives. Fencing is low to medium 
height. 

Landscape Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

The small front gardens are laid to lawn with some 
shrub planting.

Refer to figure App1.28

This is a group of single storey verandahed cottages 
from the 1880s to the Inter-War period. The narrow 
setback from the street and the consistent scale and 
simple forms of these houses creates a cohesive 
streetscape.

Statement of Significance

This is a cohesive streetscape of cottages built soon 
after the 1886 Beaconsfield Square subdivision. They 
include cottages built soon after the subdivision through 
to the Inter-War period.

Analysis - Setting

The group is set on similar blocks with narrow setbacks 
from the street. The group contrasts with the open 
space and larger scale building of the public school on 
the opposite side of the street.

Scale

The houses are originally single storey, with one now 
having a first floor addition. This is consistent with the 
narrow width of the street

Form

The group have a range of cottage forms. All are based 
on simple rectangular cottages with hipped roofs and 
a front verandah. The later examples have a gabled 
element on the front elevation to provide interest. 

Siting

The front setbacks are quite narrow. Some have a wider 
setback on one side to allow vehicular access.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-251

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY p
u
o
r
G
g
n
s
u
o
H

i

t
e
e
r
t

S
y
r
u
b
s

l
i

a
S

8
2
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-252

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
CA.22  Thompson Street Conservation Area 

History

Siting

This terrace of seven houses was built on the 1904 
subdivision of the Cometrowe Estate. The terrace 
remained under one title until 1958 when it was 
subdivided into individual allotments for each house.

Description

This small group comprises a row of single level terrace 
style housing with narrow frontages and matching 
facades. They have a strong Federation Queen Anne 
character.

Statement of Significance

The terrace of seven houses in Thompson Street is a 
very rare building form in Drummoyne. This is the only 
significant terrace in the Canada Bay Council area and 
is a strong form in the Thompson Street streetscape 
and illustrates one of the major stages of Drummoyne’s 
development. 

This terrace has a small setback from Thompson Street.

Materials and Colours

The face brick walls of this group have been painted. 
The roof is of terracotta tiles with crenellated ridging 
and rams horn finials.

Windows

Double hung windows are used in the projecting gabled 
fronts.

Carparking

No off-street car parking is provided with these houses.

Fencing

The street boundaries are marked by consistent low 
reproduction picket fencing.

Objectives

The integrity of this row is to be retained without any 
alterations to the street elevations. No further painting 
of face brick walls should take place and timber joinery 
details should be retained.

Landscape Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

The houses have small front gardens sometimes 
incorporating shrubs and hedges. Paving is restricted to 
pedestrian paths.

Analysis - Setting

Subdivision

This terrace has a narrow setback from the street. The 
slope of Thompson Street away from Lyons Road adds 
interest to the group.

The subdivision pattern of this group related directly to 
the individual houses. 

Refer to figure App1.29

Scale

This is a single storey group.

Form

The houses have a repetitive pattern of verandahs and 
gabled fronts in front of a main roof slope.

The terracotta tiled roof is a regular gabled form 
parallel to the street with individual houses separated 
by parapet walls. Transverse gables are used on the 
projecting bays.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-253

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C

t
e
e
r
t

S
n
o
s
p
m
o
h
T

9
2
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-254

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.23  Victoria Road Retail Conservation Area

History

Analysis - Setting

Victoria Road can be clearly seen with its two phases 
of development; the earlier eastern side from the early 
years of the twentieth century and the western side 
which is predominantly post World War II development 
except where buildings were set well back from the 
street alignment. The eastern side of Victoria Road is 
of particular interest as it has survived the numerous 
road widenings that have removed much of the building 
stock on the opposite side of the road.

Description

This small group of retail buildings are a very fine 
example of Edwardian shopping centre development 
and form an almost intact streetscape across the 
crown of the hill. The buildings vary in style but the 
predominant form is the two storey building with 
shopfront below and residence over. A number of these 
have cantilevered balconies to the street of design 
interest and rarity. The other buildings are the post 
office, several well detailed buildings originally used for 
banks and the Inter-War commercial building on the 
northwestern corner of Lyons Road.

Statement of Significance

This Victoria Road, Drummoyne Retail Conservation 
area is a very good example of early twentieth century 
retail development, incorporating Edwardian, Classical 
Revival and Art Deco designs. With the Sutton Place 
shopping centre and the hotel on the opposite corner, 
these buildings create a significant townscape at this 
very busy and prominent corner. All of these buildings 
form a gateway to Drummoyne and establish a 
strong and key character. The survival of cantilevered 
verandahs on a number of the buildings adds particular 
interest to the group.

Objectives

The strong Federation to Inter-war character of these 
retail buildings should be retained with their masonry 
facades, often intact shopfronts, upper floor verandahs, 
parapet forms and overall consistent and intact 
streetscape setting. Original shopfronts should be 
retained. Infill buildings should respect the overall scale 
of the street development.

This is an urban group with buildings abutting or 
separated by narrow walkways. They have visual 
prominence due to the location at the crest of a hill and 
the absence of a setback from the street alignment. 

Scale

Generally two storey buildings, usually divided 
horizontally by an awning.

Form

Continuous street facades are modulated by 
cantilevered and recessed verandahs, regularly spaced 
shopfronts, fenestration patterns, use of piers to divide 
first floor façade and articulation of the parapet walls. 
Cantilevered balcony roofs are generally corrugated 
steel and use a skillion form. The main roofs are 
generally concealed behind parapet walls. This group is 
distinctive for the incorporation of cantilevered balconies 
to a number of the buildings. The first floor façade is 
generally articulated with engaged piers and a shaped 
parapet.

Siting

These commercial buildings usually have no setback 
from the street boundary and little or no setback from 
the side boundaries, forming a continuous wall to 
Victoria Road.

Materials and Colours

Walls of masonry contrasting with render. Some Inter-
War buildings are finished with render incorporating 
decorative details. Face brick is important to the 
character of the Edwardian buildings.

Doors and Windows

A range of window openings are used, generally with a 
vertical emphasis. Larger window openings are avoided 
ensuring a regular proportion of wall and windows in the 
facades. Ground floor shopfronts are generally modern, 
although a few buildings in the conservation area are 
notable for being designed as a cohesive façade over 
both floors, undivided by an awning or balcony.

Carparking

Where available, car parking is at the rear of the site. 

Refer to figure App1.30

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-255

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C

l
i

a
t
e
R
d
a
o
R
a
i
r
o
t
c
V

i

0
3
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-256

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA.24  Yaralla Estate Conservation Area

History

Statement of Significance

The Yaralla Estate conservation Area comprises a major 
part of the 1920 release of the Yaralla Park Estate. 
This was the largest single release of land for urban 
subdivision in the former Concord Municipality’s history. 
It included the main entrance driveway to the old 
Walker Estate, retained on its original alignment as The 
Drive. The rapid development of the subdivision, closely 
associated with the Main Northern Railway, produced 
highly consistent Inter-War streetscapes.

The 1920 subdivision extended from Colane Street to 
the northern side of Wilga Street. The southern side of 
Wilga Street was developed shortly afterwards.

Description

This is an area of regular subdivision and generally 
uniform Inter-War housing. The repetition of the 
gabled roof forms of Inter-War bungalows create a 
strong rhythm in the streetscape and is reinforced by 
consistent use of dark brick and tiled roofs. Iandra 
Street at the north of the Conservation Area and Wilga 
Street at the south of the Conservation Area include 
groups of Inter-War cottages. 

It includes significant street planting, most notably 
along The Drive. The area’s original 1920s townscape 
character survives essentially unaltered. Subtle bends 
in the parallel street system add visual interest. The 
area includes a small neighbourhood shopping centre 
on Concord Road.

This 1920s precinct is representative of Concord’s 
major developmental period. It is one of the best 
preserved examples of Inter-War streetscapes in the 
Council area and includes some of the Sydney region’s 
best examples and some outstanding rows of typical 
1920s bungalows, for which Concord is noted. The 
Drive has special significance as the alignment of the 
original entry to the Walker family’s Yaralla estate.

The inclusion of subtle bends in the streetscape and 
of street planting adds to the distinctive qualities of this 
Conservation Area.

Analysis - Setting

The Yaralla Estate Conservation Area has long 
streetscapes of wide streets with subtle bends. Street 
plantings add to the amenity of the residential streets. 

Scale

Single storey housing dominates the residential 
development in this conservation area. Two storey 
commercial development and flats facing Concord Road 
reflect the importance of that road as a main traffic 
route. 

Form

The Inter-War California Bungalow style with its 
strong gabled form dominates this conservation area. 
Verandahs on the front of the house provide depth to 
the street facades. Later housing has a similar scale 
with verandahs incorporated below hipped roof forms.

Siting

Housing in the Yaralla Conservation Area has regular 
front setbacks from the streets. Most houses include a 
wide setback to one side to allow for vehicular access. 
This provides space between houses and helps 
reinforce the rhythm in the streetscape.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-257

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY Materials and Colours

Face brickwork trimmed with render below terracotta or 
slate roofs is almost uniform in the Yaralla Conservation 
Area.

Doors and Windows

Windows are usually timber casement sashes in 
groups of two or three, often with horizontal sun hoods. 
Later houses have groups of double hung windows, 
sometimes in a chamfered bay. Doors are often glazed 
and sometimes are paired.

Carparking

Garages and carports are usually set well back from the 
front building alignment.

Fencing

Original fencing is usually low brick panels between 
brick piers. Metal rails or wrought metal panels are 
sometimes used between piers.

Landscape Elements including Paving and 
Driveways

Street trees are important in this conservation area. 
Front gardens are usually dominated by lawn with low 
plantings of shrubs to provide interest. 

Refer to figures App1.31 to App1.33

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-258

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY i

w
e
v
r
e
v
O

-

a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
e
t
a
t
s
E
a

l
l

a
r
a
Y

1
3
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-259

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1

t
e
e
h
S

-

a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
e
t
a
t
s
E
a

l
l

a
r
a
Y

2
3
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-260

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2

t
e
e
h
S

-

a
e
r
A
n
o
i
t
a
v
r
e
s
n
o
C
e
t
a
t
s
E
a

l
l

a
r
a
Y

3
3
.
1
p
p
A
e
r
u
g
F

i

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 1             ########PageApp1-261

Development Control Plan Appendix 1     Conservation AreasCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A2



Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-262

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Road and Footpath Works

Objectives

O1   Engineering Standards - To provide adequate 

engineering standards for public domain areas, 
public road reserves and private access roads. 

O2   Uniformity - To ensure that there is a benefit to 
the public resulting from developments and the 
result is that the public is catered for by uniform 
infrastructure. Such infrastructure includes the 
road carriageway, footway, footpath, pavement, 
kerb and gutter, street trees, utility services, 
ancillaries and the like.

Definitions

D1   Components - The road reserve is defined by the 

following components: 

•  Footway - the section of land between the kerb 

face and the property boundary

•  Footpath - the section of pavement within the 

footway dedicated for pedestrian and/or bicycle 
access

•  Kerb and gutter - the separation or interface 
between the footway and vehicular (road) 
carriageway  

•  Road carriageway - the section of land dedicated 

for vehicular traffic  

•  Ancillary items - any stormwater drainage asset, 

road/street furniture, edging, lighting, poles, 
services, signage etc., that forms part of the road 
reserve

D2   Significant Developments - Major commercial 

and industrial developments, developments 
which occupy more than three sites across 
a street frontage, three or more allotment 
sub-divisions would be considered as "significant 
developments".  

Controls

Development

Requirement

1. Demolition only

Repair/ reinstate damaged areas 

not reported in the Damage 

Report Form or Dilapidation 

Report

2. Alterations and 

Repair/ reinstate damaged areas 

additions

not reported in the Damage 

Report Form or Dilapidation 

Report

3. New dwelling with 

Repair/ reinstate damaged areas 

existing footpath along 

not reported in the Damage 

frontage

Report Form or Dilapidation 

Report

4. New dwelling with 

Repair/reinstate damaged areas 

no existing footpath

not reported in the Damage 

Report Form or Dilapidation 

Report. Construct new footpath

4a. Dual Occupancy 

Repair/ reinstate damaged areas 

(duplexes, town 

not reported in the Damage 

homes, etc.) with no 

Report Form or Dilapidation 

existing footpath

Report. Construct new footpath

5. Residential 

Flat Building, 

Repair/ reinstate damaged areas 

not reported in the Damage 

commercial and mixed 

Report Form or Dilapidation 

developments

Report. Construct new footpath

6. Development under 

Repair/reinstate damaged areas 

SEPP Housing for 

not reported in the Damage 

Seniors or People 

Report Form or Dilapidation 

with a Disability

Report. Construct new or 

reconstruct existing footpath from 

site to nearest transport facility to  

AS1428.1 compliance

7. Significant 

Construct new footway, footpath, 

Development other 

road carriageway and ancillaries

than those listed 

herewith

C1   Requirements - All development involving 

8. Subdivision of one 

Repair/ reinstate damaged areas 

demolition and/or construction will be required 
to satisfy the requirements of this Engineering 
Specification.

C2   Footway Area Minimum Standards - The footway 

into two allotments

not reported in the Damage 

Report Form or Dilapidation 

Report. Construct new footpath, 

ancillaries and access road/s

area shall be reconstructed to satisfy the following 
minimum standards.

9. 'Greenfields' site, 

Construct new footway, footpath, 

subdivision of more 

road carriageway and ancillaries. 

than two allotments

Construct access road/s.

For Rhodes Peninsular 

Developments refer to Appendix 

5F for additional requirements

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-263

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Footway

Re-grading the grassed verge within Footway

FW1   Footway Re-grading - The grassed verge within 
the footway is to be re-graded across the entire 
property frontage, for development types 7, 
8, and 9, and in the following circumstances 
regardless of the development type:

•   Grassed verge has cross-fall of more than 5% 

(1 vertical: 20 horizontal).

•  Matching in with constructed and existing 

driveway/s.

•  Existing grassed verge is difficult (undulating) for 

pedestrians to negotiate.

•  The construction of a vehicular crossing into the 
site results in unreasonable undulations in the 
footway or steep level changes.  

•  The construction of a footpath pavement and/or 
re-alignment of the road carriageway require the 
footway to be raised or lowered to match.

•  Access difficulties for both pedestrian and 

vehicular traffic would occur without adjustment 
of the verge.

•  Walls and fences within the property boundary 

must match in with the new levels.

Minimum Footway Design Requirements

FW2    Constraints - When adjusting footway levels, 

factors such as the levels of adjoining properties, 
the degree of pedestrian usage, existing trees, 
rock outcrops and other physical features and 
the alignment of existing road, must be taken 
into consideration. 

FW3    Minimum Design Criteria - The minimum design 

criteria are set out as follows:

•   The longitudinal gradient of new footways shall 

not exceed 10%.   

•  The longitudinal change in gradient along 

footways shall not be greater than 1 in 10 with a 
minimum ease of 4.0 metres.

•  A concrete footpath shall be constructed along 

the entire section of new footways.

•  Where it is necessary to raise or lower the 

section of footway at the front of properties, the 
adjoining sections shall be re-graded to provide 
a smooth transition to the new levels. 

•  The construction of steps is generally not 

permitted unless the footway transition will 
extend more than 5.0 metres beyond the 
property frontage along the footway in order to 
achieve smooth transition.

•  Where a footpath is to be installed and its 
longitudinal gradient exceeds 10%, over a 
distance of not less than 5.0 metres, steps may 
be installed subject to Council’s approval. 

•  Grassed footway cross-fall shall be graded at 
10% adjacent to the property boundary, where 
there is no formal or concrete footpath. The 
grassed verge near the kerb side shall not 
have a cross fall exceeding 5%. The absolute 
minimum footway cross-fall shall be at 1.0% 
(for grassed surfaces only). A footpath shall 
be constructed at all times. The footway shall 
be graded such that there will be no localised 
depressions which may cause water to pond 
or to allow the concentration of stormwater or 
directing stormwater into private property/s or 
creates a step or height difference which makes 
it difficult for the 85th percentile vehicle (B85) to 
open its doors on the verge side. 

•  Where access to properties is affected by 

re-grading of the footway, all work necessary 
must be done to ensure that satisfactory 
pedestrian and vehicular access is provided. 
This may necessitate transitions within the 
development. Where works are required 
on adjoining property/s, such as driveway 
adjustments, written consent from the property 
owner/s must be obtained. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-264

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Footway Material

Footway within Private Property

FW11   Requirements of Footways - Generally footways 
for private access roads are not required unless 
access into the property/s, for example, as part 
of land subdivision including community title 
sub-division, requires the construction of an 
access road where its length exceeds 30 metres 
and no other safe access is made available for 
pedestrian thoroughfare. 

FW12  Width of Footways - Where a footway is 

required, the width of the footway shall not be 
less than 1.2 metres with service corridor/s 
located within the footway area, where possible.

FW4    Material - Material to be used for filling of 

the footway shall be of clean fill consisting of 
granular material of not less than 70%, free of 
vegetation, stumps, roots, rubbish, construction 
waste and other deleterious material. 

FW5   Rock Excavation - Where excavation is in rock, 
the rock shall be removed to a depth of 300mm 
below the finished surface level and replaced 
with clean fill.

FW6   Topsoil - Minimum 100mm thick layer of topsoil 

shall be placed over the footway. Topsoil shall 
not contain more than 40% clay content. Clods 
in the topsoil shall not be greater than 50mm in 
diameter. 

FW7   Ground Cover - The footway shall be protected 

with couch, kikuyu or buffalo or other types of 
ground cover to match the existing surface type 
which provides good protection from surface 
erosion.

FW8   Ground Cover Maintenance - The ground cover 
shall be maintained by the Developer for a 
minimum two (2) months after placement or 
laying. 

FW9   Developer Responsibilities - The Developer 
shall be responsible, at his expense, for the 
replacement of dead ground cover during the 
first two (2) month period after placement.

FW10  Footway Acceptability - The footway will not be 

considered satisfactory if:

•   The finished level of the footway adjacent to the 

kerb is below the top of the kerb or edging.

•  There is a step-down or uneven transition from 
any foot paving or driveway crossing to the 
finished level of the footway.

•  There are localised depressions in the footway 
which would cause the ponding of water or the 
concentration of stormwater runoff.

•  There are areas of eroded or dead ground cover.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-265

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Footpath

Where Footpaths Required

FP1  

 New Concrete Footpath - Full concrete footpath 
construction is required across the entire 
property frontage for development types 4, 5, 
6, 7, 8, and 9 and beyond the development 
frontage for development type 6.

FP2  

 Footpath Reconstruction - Full sections of 
footpath are to be reconstructed for development 
types 1, 2 and 3, replacing broken pavements to 
ensure safety for pedestrian thoroughfare.

FP8  

Footpath Minimum Widths

FP3  

 Minimum Widths - Minimum footpath pavement 
widths are given in the following table.

Development type

Minimum Width (metres)

1, 2 and 3

Width to match existing 
but not less than 1.2m 
unless constrained by site 
conditions such as footway 
width being less than 1.2m

4

5, 6, 7, 8 and 9

1.5

2.0

Regardless of above 
development type, the 
footpath is a shared 
route

Width as per Aust Roads 
Guidelines

Footpath Design Requirements

FP4   Construction Material - All footpath pavements 

are to be constructed in plain full concrete. 
Pavers, bitumen, patterned concrete, coloured 
concrete, any other form of cosmetic treatment 
of concrete pavement or a combination of 
pavement types is not acceptable unless it 
has been approved as part of the streetscape 
planning of the area or the pavement is a 
replacement of an existing slab of similar 
material, pattern or colour.

FP5   Footpath Cross fall - Footpath pavement cross-

fall shall be a minimum of 0.5% and a maximum 
of 2.5% (1 in 40 for disabled access) or absolute 
maximum 5.0% (where disabled access is not 
required).

FP6   Grading of Footpaths - Footpath cross-falls shall 

be graded away from the property boundary, 
towards the kerb and gutter or to an approved 
drainage system. Cross-fall must not be graded 
into private property/s.

FP7   Concrete Minimum Strength - The minimum 

concrete strength shall be 25 MPa at 28 days 
and 80mm slump in accordance with AS3600 – 
1994, Concrete Structures Code.

 Concrete Thicknesses - Concrete shall be 
installed at the minimum uniform thicknesses as 
given in the table below (except where footpath 
is across driveways, in which case, it shall be 
the same thickness as the driveway slab). 
Concrete footpath shall be laid on a minimum 
100mm thick road base (compacted to minimum 
98% maximum dry density) or 50mm thick and 
well compacted sand (compacted to a density 
index of not less than 65%). 

Footpath Width (metres)

Slab Thickness (mm)

1.2 to 1.5

2.0

2.5

> 2.5

75

100

130

150

FP9   Sub-Grade - The sub-grade shall be compacted 
and checked for uniformity and all irregularities 
made good prior to the pouring of concrete. 

FP10   Finish - The concrete shall be broom or coving 

trowel finished. All edges shall be rounded with a 
75mm edging tool, with a 5mm radius.

FP11    Joint Material - Contraction/expansion or 

construction joints shall be formed from 10mm 
thick compressible bituminous cork filler board 
(mastic jointing material).

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-266

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Location of Footpaths within the Footway

FP15   Footpath Location - New footpaths shall be 

abutted against the property boundary or in the 
same alignment or continuation of the existing 
footpath or as deemed appropriate by Council’s 
Asset Engineer, where no existing footpath is 
present. For reconstruction of existing footpaths, 
the same location as the adjoining footpath. 

FP16   Extension of Footpath - If the installation of a 

footpath results in the grassed verge to be less 
than 600mm in width, then the footpath shall be 
extended for the full width of the footway, that is, 
the concrete footpath shall be constructed from 
the edge of the property boundary to the back of 
kerb. 

Signage

FP17   Signage - Where footpath is to be used for both 

pedestrians and cyclists, adequate signage 
shall be installed at the commencement of the 
footpath indicating that the footpath is for shared 
pedestrian and bicycle usage. 

FP18   Signage Location - Signage shall be provided 

both on stems and painted onto the pavement at 
the appropriate locations, in accordance with the 
RTA Aust Roads Bicycle Design Guidelines.

FP19   Signage Clearance - Signage stems shall have 
at least 600mm clearance from the face of kerb.

FP12    Joint Installation - Contraction/expansion joints 
shall be installed at the full depth of the slab at 
each side of vehicular crossing slabs, against 
concrete structures and at intervals given in 
table below.

Width of Slab (metres)

Distance C/E Joints 
(metres)

1.5

2.0

3.0

3.5

6.0

8.0

12.0

14.0

FP13    Weakened Plane Joints - Weakened plane joints 

shall be 3mm wide and formed at intervals as 
given in the table below except for integral kerbs 
where they are to match joint locations in the 
slab. 

Width of Slab (metres)

Distance WP Joints 
(metres)

1.5

2.0

3.0

3.5

1.5

2.0

3.0

3.5

FP14   Concrete Curing - Concrete shall be cured 
for at least seven (7) days.  Any damage or 
unsatisfactory finish of the slab shall be replaced 
at the Developer's expense.    
The footpath slab up to 75mm in thickness 
and 1.5 metres in width will not require any 
reinforcement.  The footpath thickness between 
75mm and 100mm and more than 1.5 metres 
in width will require SL62 reinforcement and the 
footpath slab between 100mm and 150mm and 
more than 1.5 metres in width will require SL72 
reinforcement. Reinforcement shall be placed 
centrally in the slab.   

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-267

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Kerb and Gutter

Where Kerb and Gutter is Required

KG1  

 Kerb and Gutter Requirement - Regardless of 
the development type, kerb and gutter shall be 
constructed in the following circumstances:

•   The proposed works includes the reconstruction 
or construction of an existing road or new road 
for access.

•  Kerb and gutter along an existing paved 

carriageway servicing the development is in an 
unsatisfactory condition or at unacceptable or 
non-standard level. For example, kerb height is 
more than 150mm or less than 150mm.

•  Kerb and gutter along an existing paved 

carriageway servicing the development does not 
exist.

•  Kerb and gutter along the property frontage is in 
an unsatisfactory condition or at unacceptable or 
non-standard levels.

Minimum Design Standards

KG2  

 Minimum Design Criteria - Kerb and gutter shall 
be constructed to the following criteria:

•  The minimum longitudinal gradient along the 

gutter shall be at 1%, where practical.

•  Cross fall from the centreline of the road to the 

invert of the gutter shall be at 3%.

•  The road maximum cross fall from the centre line 
of the road to the shoulder shall not exceed 5%. 

•  The proposed kerb and gutter shall match in with 

existing kerb and gutter. 

•  A section of not less than 1.0 metre of the 

existing kerb and gutter need to be reconstructed 
to ensure that there is a smooth transition 
between new and old works.

•  Existing crossovers and drainage outlets affected 
by the proposed works shall be replaced and 
extended to the new kerb face.

•  Kerb and gutter refers to standard 150mm high 

•  Kerb and gutter along the property frontage does 

concrete kerb with integral gutter. 

not exist.

•  The construction of kerb and gutter provides 
protection to the property/s from the inflow of 
stormwater off a public road or reserve.

•  The construction of kerb and gutter would 

prevent the likely erosion of the road shoulder 
as a result of vehicular and/or pedestrian traffic 
outside the proposed development.

•  Kerb and gutter is to be reconstructed as part of 
the footway and/or carriageway reconstruction.

•  Other types of edge treatment such as rolled 

kerb and gutter, mountable kerb and gutter, dish 
crossing, sandstone blocks or brick kerbs may 
be used if it has been approved as part of the 
streetscape planning of the area or the edging 
type is a replacement of an existing material, 
pattern or colour.

•  Kerb only is not to be used where the cross fall 

of the road diverts stormwater to the kerb.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-268

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Road Carriageway

General

R1  

 Reference - The road carriageway refers to 
the section of the road reserve dedicated for 
vehicular traffic flow. This includes any private 
access roads (e.g. right-of-ways). 

When road carriageway is to be reconstructed

R2  

 Carriageway Construction - The road 
carriageway is to be reconstructed in the 
following situations:

•  Half road reconstruction for development type 7 
and full road construction for development types 
8 and 9. 

•  Regardless of the development type, a Damage 
or Dilapidation Report confirms that the road 
has been significantly damaged as part of the 
development or is in very poor condition or 
failure at the time of construction/development, 
half road reconstruction will be required.

•  Regardless of the development type, the existing 
road carriageway outside the property frontage 
is at a cross fall which results in the scraping 
of vehicles when a vehicular crossing has been 
installed for the property.

•  Full road slab construction will be required 

for local road concrete pavements or as per 
specification form the Roads and Maritime 
Services (RMS) where it is an RMS controlled 
roads, unless noted otherwise. 

Road carriageway construction

R3  

 Cross-fall - Construction of the road carriageway 
is to have the following cross-falls:

•  Cross-fall to be graded from the centre or crown 

of the carriageway to the gutter. 

•  One-way cross-falls may only be permitted 
for narrow roads and one-way trafficked 
carriageways of less than 5.0 metres in width.

•  Offset crowns are not acceptable. 

•  Super-elevation is not normally provided but 

shall be a maximum of 6% at bends.

•  The minimum cross-fall for asphaltic concrete 

carriageway pavement shall be 2.5% to 3% (with 
absolute maximum of 5%). 

R4  

 Longitudinal Gradient - Longitudinal gradient of 
the road carriageway shall be as follows:

•  For bitumen pavements, the minimum 

longitudinal gradient of the road carriageway 
shall be 1%. 

•  For concrete pavements, an absolute minimum 
fall of 0.5% is allowed, construction accuracy 
permitting.

•  For all pavement types, the general maximum 

longitudinal gradient shall be 12.5% for 
residential (local) roads. For other road 
classification, in accordance with the RTA's Aust 
Roads Pavement Design Manual.

•   For all pavement types, the general maximum 
longitudinal gradient shall be 8.5% for local 
distributor roads.  

•  An absolute maximum longitudinal gradient of 

16% may be permitted depending on adequate 
sight distance of vertical curves. 

R5  

 Matching in with Existing - The proposed road 
pavement shall match in with the existing 
pavement with regard to adequate vertical eases 
and horizontal transitions. This may require the 
reconstruction of a portion of the existing road 
pavement to match in smoothly with the new 
works.  

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-269

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY R6  

 Pavement Design - Pavement design shall be as 
follows:

•  All roads shall be designed based on traffic 
classification counts and traffic loading as 
specified in AUSTROADS Guide to Pavement 
Technology Part 2: Pavement Structural Design 
AGPT02-12 or Roads and Maritime Services 
Form 76 – Supplement to the Austroads Guide 
to the Structural Design of Road Pavements or 
ARRB Structural Design Guide for residential 
street pavements as applicable, except where 
specified elsewhere in this document.

•  Road pavement constructed in concrete shall 
be minimum 50MPa compressive strength at 
230mm uniform thickness with two layers of 
reinforcement fabric (SL81) top and bottom 
50mm cover over a 150mm lean mix slurry of 
5MPa compressive strength. 

•  Road pavement shall be designed for a traffic 
loading of not less than 2.5 x 106 ESA for all 
roads except roads with bus routes which shall 
be designed for minimum 1.23 x 107 ESA and 
in accordance with the Aust Roads Pavement 
Design Guidelines.

•  Verification of sub-grade suitability shall require 

submission of a geotechnical report with relevant 
core sampling tested and reported. 

Ancillaries

Pedestrian Crossing Ramps

A1  

 Location - Pedestrian crossing ramps shall be 
constructed at each kerb return opposite the 
extension of the main footpath and in the kerb 
opposite the extension of a public pathway. 

A2   Design and Installation - Pedestrian crossing 
ramps shall be designed and installed as per 
AS1428.2.

A3   Raised Tactile Pavers - Raised tactile pavers 

shall be installed on pedestrian ramps and 
positioned as per AS1428.2.

A4  

Tactile Paver Material and Colour  - Raised 
tactile pavers shall be of grey coloured concrete 
or black coloured polyurethane type material or 
as specified as part of the streetscape planning 
for the area or the tactile paver is a replacement 
of an existing paving of similar material, pattern 
or colour.

Vehicle Crossings and Laybacks

A5   Minimum Standards - The minimum standards 
for the construction of driveways and laybacks 
across the footway are provided in Section 
Vehicular Access.

•  Collector, local distributor, commercial and 

Stormwater drainage

industrial pavements shall be designed by a 
qualified Geotechnical Engineer in accordance 
with the Aust Roads Pavement Design 
Manual.

A6  

Installation of Piped Drainage - For development 
types 7, 8, and 9, piped stormwater drainage 
must be installed to cater for at least the 
minor system flows as described in Section 
Stormwater Management.

A7   Minimum Standard - The minimum standards for 
stormwater drainage system design are given in 
Section Stormwater Management.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-270

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Traffic Calming Devices

Utility services

A8  

 Minimum Standards - Traffic calming devices 
such as thresholds, slow points, speed humps, 
chicanes, and the like are to be designed in 
accordance with Aust Roads Guide to Traffic 
Engineering Practice, Part 10, Local Area 
Traffic Management.

Steps

A9  

 When Steps Required - Steps should be avoided 
whenever possible. However where necessary, 
they shall be installed along all pedestrian-only 
footpaths where the longitudinal gradient of 
the pathway is sufficiently steep to warrant its 
installation or that the installation of a transition 
ramp cannot be extended adequately to achieve 
a smooth transition due to site constraints. 
"Steepness" is measured in accordance with the 
Building Code of Australia requirements or as 
determined by Council’s Asset Engineer, where 
BCA requirements cannot be met.  

Steps are also to be installed where the 
longitudinal gradient of the footpath exceeds 1 in 
4, over a distance of not less than 5.0 metres. 

A10   Material - Steps shall be constructed in 

reinforced concrete, pre-cast units or 
prefabricated metal and supported on-ground 
and are to be painted in highly visible paint to 
delineate change in height. Suspended types are 
not preferred. 

A11   Preference of Ramps over Steps - Ramps are 

A12  

favoured over steps whenever possible. To 
permit access for disabled persons, steps are 
considered as a last resort and only when ramps 
cannot be installed to comply with the disabled 
access code due to physical constraints. 

 Handrails - Where the level change between 
the steps and/or footpath and the adjoining 
surface level, at a distance of 1.5 metres or less, 
exceeds 500mm, handrails are to be installed. 
Handrails are to be designed in accordance with 
AS1428.2.  

A13   Satisfactory Provision of Services - Satisfactory 

arrangements for sewer, water, gas, electricity 
and telecommunication services must be 
provided for all developments including 
"greenfield" sites and land subdivisions. 

A14   Approval - Approval will not be granted unless 

satisfactory service provisions can be provided. 

A Section 73 Certificate under the Sydney Water 
Act 1994 must be obtained for "greenfield" sites 
and new land subdivisions. This Certificate 
must be provided prior to the release of the 
Subdivision or Occupation Certificate.

A15   Provision of Electricity Services - Direct access 

to electricity supply must be provided for all 
"greenfield" sites and new land sub-divisions. 
New electrical sub-stations, generators, kiosks, 
and turrets servicing the development must be 
located wholly within the property boundary. New 
electrical sub-stations, generators, kiosks and 
turrets must not be located on public land.   

A16   Undergrounding of Electrical Services - 

Development types  7, 8 and 9 including  
"greenfield" sites and new land subdivisions 
must have electricity supply provided 
underground. Including public domain areas, 
existing overhead power lines are to be 
re-installed as underground cables. 

A17   New Light Poles and Power Poles - New light 
poles and power poles are to be provided for 
development types 7, 8 and 9. These shall be 
installed at a minimum offset distance of 300mm 
between the face of the kerb to the face of the 
pole, unless specified otherwise. The minimum 
spacing between light poles will be based on the 
required luminance for the area.

A18   Gas Services - Reticulated gas supply, where 
available, must be provided for all "greenfield" 
sites and new land subdivisions.  

A19   Certification - A Compliance Certificate 

from each utility service authority must be 
provided certifying that its requirements for the 
satisfactory provision of the service have been 
met before release of Subdivision or Occupation 
Certificate.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-271

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY A20   Dedicated Service Corridor - For "greenfield" 
sites and new land sub-divisions, a dedicated 
service corridor, conduit and easement shall be 
provided to service each allotment created.

A21   Relocation of Services - If, as part of the 

proposed development, mains, services and 
poles need to be relocated, it shall be carried 
out at the Applicant's expense to the satisfaction 
of Council and the relevant utility authority, as 
required.

A22   Developers' Responsibility - It is the 

responsibility of the Developer to ensure that 
all care has been exercised to prevent damage 
to any public utility, e.g. gas, water, sewerage, 
electricity and telecommunication. The Applicant 
will be responsible for any damage caused by 
him or his agents, either directly or indirectly.

A23   House Service Alterations - Alterations to house 

services shall be carried out only by qualified 
tradesperson.

A24   Location of Utility Services -The locations and 
depths of utility services under a road reserve 
shall be installed in accordance with the New 
South Wales Streets Opening Conference 
1997 resolution. 

A25   Liaising with Relevant Utility Service Authorities 
- In particular relation to "greenfield" sites, 
new land subdivisions, and where a new or 
existing public road is to be reconstructed or 
constructed, the Developer must liaise with the 
relevant authority, arrange and pay all costs and 
fees associated with providing street lighting, 
underground electrical power, telecommunication 
services, and adjustment of surface fittings, pits, 
etc. affected by the propose works. 

A26   Engineering Plans - All underground services 

and services in general must be detailed on 
engineering plans, submitted and approved by 
Council prior to development approval.

Street Trees and Landscaping

A27  

Installation of Street Trees - Street trees are to 
be installed across the entire property frontage, 
for development types 7, 8, and 9 and where 
the footway and road is to be reconstructed 
regardless of the development type. 

A28   Suitable Species - Council's Landscape Architect 

is to be consulted in regards to suitable plant 
species. 

A29   Location - Street trees are to be planted at an 

offset distance of not less than 600mm from the 
face of kerb to the centre of the tree. Trees are 
to be planted at the distances tabulated below.

Location

Distance (metres)

From any road intersection 
(tangent point/kerb return)

Between tree centres

From the top of driveway wings

From signs, poles, posts

10

6

2

1

A30   Edging - For concrete pavements, no timber 

edging is required around the landscape 
islands. For surface types other than concrete 
pavements (e.g. turf or bitumen), the perimeter 
edging around the landscape island, shall be 
timber 30mm wide by 100mm deep. Landscape 
islands shall be square in shape, 1200mm wide 
by 1200mm long.

A31   Bedding Material - For concrete pavements, 

bedding material shall be "arboresin" or 
equivalent. For bitumen pavements or grassed 
areas, bedding material shall be mulch. Colour 
shall be as specified by Council's Landscape 
Architect at the lodgement of the Development 
Application (DA).

A32   Submission of Detailed Landscape Plans - 

Detailed landscape plans are to be submitted 
and approved by Council prior to development 
consent.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-272

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Vehicular Access

Objectives

Application

V1   Uniformity - To ensure uniformity in the design 
and construction of vehicular crossings in the 
City of Canada Bay Local Government Area. 

V7  

Applications to Council for the Location and 
Construction of a Vehicular Crossing or Ancillary 
works must be submitted.  

V2  

Safe and Convenient Access - To ensure that 
safe and convenient vehicular access can be 
provided to and from parking spaces for all 
properties.

Definitions

V3   General - Vehicular access or driveway crossing 

V4  

V5  

V6  

refers to the formal access for vehicles (85th 
percentile vehicle in accordance with AS/
NZS2890.1:2004 Off Street Car Parking Code).

Formal Access - Driveway refers to the formal 
platform between the kerb line and the property 
boundary by which vehicular access is provided. 

Exclusions - In this Section, vehicular access 
does not include internal access roads, (both 
vehicular and pedestrian access) within the 
property boundary, suspended structures and 
the like, which would be assessed separately on 
its merits and will require separate Development 
Application (DA) approval. 

Ancillary Works - Ancillary works refers to any 
works other than driveways and laybacks such 
as footpath construction or reconstruction, 
pavements, stormwater drainage pipes and 
pits and the like within the road reserve. These 
works could be undertaken in conjunction with or 
separately from driveway construction. 

No construction work will be permitted until 
formal written approval is obtained from Council 
following the submission of the Application.  

An Application for Driveway Construction and 
Ancillary Works must be submitted for all 
proposed construction and reconstruction of 
vehicular access and this applies to:

•  All Developments Applications involving 
residential, commercial, and industrial 
development, and

•  Where a stand alone formal crossing(s) or cross-

over (layback) is proposed.

V8  

 Consultation - Prior to the lodgement of a 
Driveway Application, please ensure that:

•  The Applicant has consulted with Council’s 

Planning Section, in regards to heritage, LEP 
and DCP matters and has been given advice 
that a driveway at the specified location is 
permissible; and that 

•  The Applicant has read this Specification and is 
fully aware of any limitations and/or constraints, 
which may preclude the approval of a driveway.

Statutory and Design Requirements

Persons who can undertake Construction

V9  

Approved Persons - Vehicle crossings can be 
constructed by either Council’s Construction 
Team or a Private Contractor, to ensure that 
works are built to a reasonable standard and 
uniformity. 

Property owners may appoint their own Private 
Contractor to construct the driveway. However, to 
ensure that the quality of the work is maintained 
and public safety is not compromised, the 
nominated Contractor must have extensive 
experience in concrete works especially in the 
construction of vehicle crossings with current 
public liability insurance cover and must be 
approved by Council.  

A Private Contractor, nominated by the Property 
Owner, may be approved by Council to carry 
out the works following submission of the 
following: 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-273

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY •  A copy of the current public liability insurance is 
provided to Council. The insurance cover shall 
be for a sum not less than $A20,000,000 for 
a period of six (6) months, and nominating on 
the policy the City of Canada Bay Council as 
indemnifying them against public risk claims, 
arising during the construction of the crossing or 
as a result of the construction of the crossing;

•   A copy of the Contractor's current concrete 

license and record of previous work are provided 
to Council; and

•  A Security Deposit is paid to Council by the 

Contractor, as set down in Council’s Fees and 
Charges lodged prior to any works commencing. 
This Deposit is refundable upon satisfactory 
completion of the works, at the discretion of 
Council.

•  An additional non-refundable administration fee, 
as set down in Council’s Fees and Charges shall 
also be paid. This fee covers the processing 
of the driveway application and three (3) site 
inspections. Note this fee applies to each 
driveway applied for per property. If more than 
one driveway is to be constructed, the same fee 
must be paid for any additional driveway to be 
processed.   

If all of the above requirements are not satisfied, 
the application may be rejected and a further fee 
(10% of the Security Deposit) will be required before 
reconsideration. 

For ancillary works such as the construction of a 
concrete footpath, an administration fee is payable.      
A refundable deposit is also required.

Issuing Driveway Levels

V10   Written Permission - No work shall commence 
without written permission from Council.  

The Contractor is to submit a driveway design 
appropriate for the site, complying with AS/
NZS2890.1:2004.  This design must be 
approved by Council in writing before any 
construction can be carried out. 

In exceptional circumstances, e.g. due to 
omission of information on the part of the 
applicant and notwithstanding the above advice, 
Council may consider that the construction of 
a driveway at the proposed location or site is 
inappropriate or impractical. The Applicant will 
then be advised accordingly and all but $A50 will 
be refunded.

Supervision and Inspections

V11   Supervision - Works are to be carried out in 

accordance with this document, relevant Council 
Specifications and Australian standards. 

No work is to be carried out except under the 
supervision and approval of Council or its 
nominated representative.    

Council shall meet with the nominated 
Contractor and/or Owner to carry out mandatory 
inspections for the purpose of: 

•  Formwork inspection - at least forty-eight 

(48) hours notice must be given for checking 
timbering for alignment, reinforcement 
placement, level and stability and sub-grade 
preparation.

•  Final inspection - the Owner or Contractor 

shall notify Council for a Final inspection once 
the concrete has been poured and finished, 
formwork removed and area restored. At least 
twenty-four (24) hours notice must be given. 

To arrange for appropriate inspection times, 
bookings shall be made through Council’s 
Customer Service Section. 

If more inspections are required above the 
mandatory inspections due to any omission 
or unsatisfactory work, including the storage 
of materials, insufficient barricading and site 
safety, on the part of the owner or contractor, or 
remedial actions that Council deems necessary 
to achieve compliance, an additional fee shall 
be charged, as defined in Council’s Fees and 
Charges Schedule. 

Final Approval

V12   Notification in Writing - Council will notify 

the owner in writing of the Final Approval of 
the work. Any defects found during the Final 
Inspection must be remedied. This is the 
responsibility of the owner and therefore it is 
advised that final payment not be made to 
the Contractor until such approval has been 
received. 

Once the driveway is completed and Council is 
satisfied with the works, a refund of the crossing 
bond can be arranged. The Applicant shall apply 
in writing to Council.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-274

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
Adjustments to Utility Services

V13   Service Alterations - Any alteration, which may 

be necessary, for the construction of the vehicle 
crossing, to any water, sewer, gas, electricity, 
telecommunication, stormwater system, and 
other utility services is to be arranged by the 
contractor with the relevant utility authority. 

V14   Protective Box Adjustments - The protective 

boxes over any hydrant, gas cocks, stop valves, 
sewer lines, and the like shall be adjusted by the 
contractor, in consultation with the relevant utility 
authority, so that they are flush with the finished 
surface.

V15   Physical Location - The contractor is responsible 

for the physical location of all utility services 
likely to affect the proposed works. The 
contractor is liable for any damage to service 
utilities. The contractor is required to contact 
“Dial before you dig” (ph 1100) before any work 
commencing.

V16   Associated Costs - Any cost incurred as part of 
the adjustment will be borne by the owner.

V17   Conflicts with Stormwater Conduits - Where an 

existing or proposed house stormwater pipe 
traverses the proposed driveway crossing, 
and there is insufficient cover over the pipe, 
the section of pipe shall be converted to a 
galvanised steel 200 x 100 x 6 rectangular 
hollow section (RHS) across the footpath, 
to achieve adequate cover. Alternatively, 
relocate the pipe, where possible, away from 
the driveway and in the direction which allows 
adequate drainage

Road Design Affecting Driveway Levels

V18   Proposed Design - Where a proposed design 

has been prepared by Council to alter the 
carriageway and/or footpath fronting the property 
concerned, the driveway works shall be carried 
out in conformity with the proposed design. 
Information for this purpose shall be supplied by 
Council or its representative.

that if  Council should carry out future 
construction works to a proposed design, which 
may involve the alteration to part or whole of 
any of the constructed work, then a contribution 
may be payable had no work been carried out, 
will be levied and must be paid by the property 
owner, in accordance with the Roads Act, at the 
time when the Council proposed works are to be 
carried out.

Public Safety and Provision for Traffic

V20   Pedestrian and Vehicle Safety - The contractor 

is responsible for the safe passage of pedestrian 
and vehicular traffic. During the progress of the 
works, all necessary warning notices, barricades 
and lights must be installed, in accordance with 
AS1742.3 - 1996, Traffic control devices for 
works on roads. 

Where the works require traffic control, the 
contractor will be responsible for appropriate 
traffic control devices being put in place, 
including necessary lamp signage, maintenance 
and the like in accordance with AS1742.3 - 
1996. 

Where works are to be carried out on roads 
of a "Collector Road" status or higher, and 
obstruction to traffic is unavoidable, a Traffic 
Management Plan must be submitted with the 
application to Council, endorsed by the Police 
and relevant authorities e.g. RTA, for approval. 
This plan is to be prepared in compliance with 
AS1742.3 - 1996. A minimum notification period 
not less than ten (10) working days shall be 
provided prior to the commencement of works. 

These ancillaries should be included in the total 
cost towards the works.

V21   Liability - The contractor shall be liable for 

any accident, damage or injury to persons or 
property resulting from the work. In this regard, 
the Contractor must have appropriate and 
current public liability insurance to this effect.  

Compliance with Other Regulations

V19   Proposal to Modify Street Levels - Where 

V22   Compliance - Works shall be carried out in 

Council has a proposal to modify the area at the 
front of the property but a proposed design has 
not yet been prepared, the work shall be set out 
in accordance with the best available information 
and in accordance with this Document and any 
other relevant standards, on the understanding 

compliance with The Clean Waters Act, The 
Roads Act, The Motor Traffic Act and the 
Occupational Health and Safety Act, and any 
other Acts as deemed relevant.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-275

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Hours of Construction/ Demolition

Driveway Dimensions and Alignment

V23   Hours of Construction/Demolition - The hours 

V28   Maximum Driveway Slab Widths - The width 

of construction/demolition shall be restricted 
to 7:00am to 5:00pm, Mondays to Fridays 
and 8:00am to 1:00pm Saturdays, with a total 
exclusion of work on Sundays and Public 
Holidays.

V24   Non-offensive Works - Non-offensive works, 

where power operated plant is not used such 
as setting out, surveying, plumbing, electrical 
installation, or site cleaning by hand shovel and 
site landscaping, is permitted between the hours 
of 1:00pm to 4:00pm Saturdays, at Council’s 
approval.

Important Note: The Protection of the Environment 
Operations Act 1997 may preclude the operation of 
some equipment on site during these permitted working 
hours.

Preparation and Excavation

V25   Minimum Excavation - The Contractor shall 

excavate to the full depth required for the 
specified thickness of the proposed crossing 
slab.  

In rock, clay or unstable foundation material, 
additional excavation shall be carried out and a 
sub-base of sand, or other approved material, 
to a minimum depth of 75mm consolidated 
thickness, shall be provided.

V26   Compaction - The sub-grade or sub-base 

shall be adequately compacted to the required 
minimum depth of 150mm to the following 
requirements:

•  Sands - density index of 70% in accordance with 
AS 1289.E3.1 where the compaction test is in 
accordance with AS 1289.E5.1.

•  Material other than sand - dry density rates in 
accordance with AS 1289.E4.1 of more than 
95% where the compaction test is in accordance 
with AS 1289.E1.1 (standard).

V27   Adjacent Surface - The surface adjacent to the 
proposed driveway shall be trimmed to conform 
generally to the levels and cross-fall similar to 
the adjoining area, free of trip hazard, unless 
otherwise instructed by Council's Engineer. This 
shall include lifting and resetting footpath lawns 
where necessary.

of any crossing to a property must be kept to a 
minimum. Excessively wide vehicle crossings will 
not be approved because it:

•  compromises pedestrian safety by encouraging 
vehicles to cross the footway at greater speeds,

•   minimises the area for pedestrian refuge, 

•  encourages illegal parking on the footway,

•  detracts from passive streetscape by increasing 

the amount of visible hard paving, and

•  reduces on-street parking spaces. 

The following table gives maximum allowable crossing 
slab widths for various residential property frontage 
widths:

Width of Property 
Frontage (metres)

Maximum Allowable Width 
of Crossing Slab at (metres)

kerb line

boundary

less than 10.0

10.0 to less than 12.0

12.0 to less than 15.0

3.5

3.5

3.5

15.0 to less than 20.0

3.5 to 4.0

20.0 to less than 30.0

4.0 to 6.0

3.5

4.0

5.0

6.0

7.0

greater than 30.0

Merit based, to be 
determined by Council

Important Note: The minimum width refers to the 
crossing slab only and does not include the width of the 
layback with 0.6 metres wing-walls at each end. 

V29   Driveway Slabs for Commercial Premises - 
Commercial premises, properties requiring 
two-level entries, or where traffic is heavy (for 
example, the property frontage to a main road 
with heavy vehicular traffic movement); the 
above widths may be increased at Council's 
discretion. For example, service stations may be 
granted wider driveway widths based on swept 
vehicle paths and submission of a Traffic Report.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-276

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY V30   Wheel Strips - Wheel strips are not acceptable 
because they do not provide sufficient protection 
to the public footway. Constant wearing by 
vehicular traffic may cause rutting in the 
grass verge which compromises the safety of 
pedestrians using the footway. 

V31   Vehicle Crossings to be Perpendicular to Kerb 
Line - Vehicle crossings are to be constructed 
perpendicular to the kerb line. In special 
circumstances, to reduce disturbance to traffic 
flow along a major road, an angled driveway 
may be permitted subject to the approval of 
Council's Asset Engineer.

Driveways off Narrow Roads

V32   Splays and Widened Driveways - Splays are 

not to be used. The minimum crossing slab 
width shall be 3.5 metres. Council does not 
encourage the construction of wide crossovers 
where it is unnecessary as it increases the risk 
to pedestrians and diminishes the opportunity for 
on-street parking. 

Vehicle crossings are generally required to 
be constructed perpendicular to the kerb line. 
This encourages vehicles to slow down whilst 
entering properties.  

In special circumstances, the driveway may be 
widened to prevent vehicles from driving onto 
the nature-strip or where safer access and 
egress can be provided. This is likely where the 
road carriageway width is less than 5.5 metres. 

Where the width of the road carriageway is less 
than 5.5 metres, the driveway may be permitted 
to be widened, subject to a check using a 
standard swept turning path of the 85th Percentile 
vehicle (B85). 

Permitted Number of Driveways per Property

V33   Residential Driveways - For residential 

developments, a maximum of one (1) vehicle 
crossing for vehicle access, is permitted unless 
the property is located on a corner block or 
has the front and rear backing onto a street, 
where it enjoys access to two (2) or more street 
frontages, in which case, it may be permitted to 
have two (2) driveways, at Council’s discretion. 

V34   Maximum Number of Vehicle Crossings 

Permitted - A maximum of two (2) crossings may 
be permitted at Council’s discretion and under 
the following circumstances:

•  The property is a commercial/industrial 

development where there are currently separate 
entry and exit points or there are two (2) or more 
entry levels or multiple ramps and the installation 
of the second crossing is unlikely to diminish 
on-street parking.  

V35   Minimum Gap between Driveways - A minimum 

gap of 0.5 metres must be provided between 
driveways to prevent the two driveways across 
the footway to be used as one. 

V36   Duplexes and Multi-Residential Developments - 

Duplexes and other similar types of development 
may be permitted to have two (2) vehicle 
crossings where the location of the garages 
or parking spaces within the property does not 
permit the use of a shared driveway and the 
installation of the second crossing is unlikely 
to diminish on-street parking. For a single 
combined driveway, the maximum width will be 
assessed as if the site was for a single dwelling, 
or to a width which would be sufficient to permit 
only one vehicular movement to enter and exit 
the site in a forward direction.  

Important Note: Council at its discretion may 
restrict the number of driveways permitted for a 
site even if the property enjoys more than one 
street frontage for the following reasons:

•  The proposed driveway connects into a section 

of road which is considered hazardous for 
vehicular traffic entering or exiting the site

•  The proposed driveway connects into a section 

of unformed road reserve

•  Vehicles entering or exiting the proposed 
driveway do not have good sight distance

•  The proposed driveway diminishes on-street 

parking

•  The proposed driveway will be near or in front of 

an existing bus stop or shelter. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-277

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Driveway Locations

V37   Prohibition - Access shall be located so that sight 

distances are not affected by existing structures 
such as street trees, earth mounds, bus shelters, 
and other physical features. Council may not 
approve the location of such an access if the 
location will adversely affect sight lines or 
detracts from the streetscape of the area.  

Vehicle access will not be permitted at the 
following locations and circumstances:

•  At Council’s discretion

•  Where the proposed vehicle access is likely to 

diminish on-street parking

•  To a major road if reasonable access can 

be gained from another public road of lower   
classification

•  Opposite or within 6.0 metres of a median 

opening in a major road

•  Within 25.0 metres of a signalised intersection*

•  Within 9.0 metres at non-signalised 

intersections*

•  At localised depressions** (“sag” points) 

•  At the entrance into a basement or sub-floor 
level regardless of whether it is in a localised 
depression or not***

The above distances are measured 
perpendicular from the face of the kerb of the 
intersecting street (or prolongation of the kerb 
line or tangent point if curved). 

*Important Note 1: Access may be permitted 
provided that it can be demonstrated, to 
Council’s satisfaction, that it is safe to do so 
and that extenuating circumstances exist, for 
example, where this is the only location where 
vehicular access can be gained.

**Important Note 2: At sag locations in the 
road, if the proposed driveway could result in 
the driveway becoming a spillway for stormwater 
entry or stormwater ponding here, unless 
an appropriate hydraulic model (using either 
Manning’s Equation or HEC-RAS, which-ever 
being appropriate and based on the 100-yr 

ARI design storm) is used to determine the 
water surface profile to demonstrate that the 
driveway profile has a design crest which 
prevents stormwater from entering into the 
premises and/or that the stormwater runoff can 
be safely conveyed along a suitably designed 
overland flow path, then the driveway will not be 
approved. 

***Important Note 3: All driveways to basement 
or sub-floor areas, whether it be located in a sag 
or not, will not be approved unless a  catchment 
analysis for the 100-yr ARI design storm is 
undertaken to determine the stormwater runoff 
and then an appropriate hydraulic model (using 
either Manning’s Equation or HEC-RAS, which-
ever being appropriate) is used to determine the 
water surface profile, to demonstrate that the 
proposed driveway will offer adequate protection 
from stormwater entering into the premises. 
Refer Section Overland Flow and Flood 
Studies for further details.

V38   Minimum Length of Parking Bay - A driveway will 

not be permitted if the proposed parking space 
within the property between the boundary and 
building line is less than 5.5m in length, causing 
a parked vehicle to encroach onto the footway 
reserve.  

V39   Sight Lines - Vehicle crossings shall be located 

so that minimum sight distances to traffic and 
pedestrians can be provided. Sight distance 
to pedestrians shall be met by providing clear 
sight lines in accordance with AS/NZS 2890.1 - 
2004, Parking Facilities, Part 1: Off-street car 
parking.  

Vehicle crossings should also not be located 
where existing trees or power poles may 
obstruct sight lines or where it is too close to the 
root zone of trees. Similarly, the driveways shall 
not be located too close to power poles where 
undermining may occur.   

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-278

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY V40   Removal of Obstructions - In certain situations, 
Council may grant approval for the removal or 
relocation of these structures, where there is no 
alternative location.  

In this circumstance, approval must be sought 
from Council's relevant officers who may 
include Asset Engineer, Traffic Engineer, Tree 
Preservation Officer and Planners. All costs 
associated with such work shall be borne by the 
Owner.

V41   Stormwater Pits - All driveways must be clear 

of existing stormwater inlet pits. The removal or 
reduction in the length of the pit lintel or grating 
is not acceptable, as this would reduce the rate 
of stormwater collection. However, excluding 
existing pits located in a depression (sag), if the 
hydraulic characteristics of the drainage system 
are not made less efficient, the relocation of 
the pit may be permitted. In this circumstance 
Council will undertake the works of pit relocation 
or nominate an approved Contractor. All costs 
associated with the relocation of the pit shall be 
borne by the Owner.

V42   Street Trees - Driveways must not be located 

over or near trees to be retained.  The minimum 
clearance to trees will depend on factors such 
as the proximity to the trees root zone and sight 
lines.

Existing Crossings

V43   Retention of Existing Crossings - Existing 

crossing slabs and laybacks may be re-utilised if:

•  They are in the correct location, set at the 

correct levels and in reasonable condition, and

•  its retention is NOT contrary to this Document.

V44   Removal of Existing Crossings - Existing 
crossings and layback must be removed, 
where the crossing slab and layback is made 
redundant. It shall be completely removed and 
the footway area and kerb/gutter restored to 
Council's satisfaction. 

V45   Owner's Cost for Removal of Redundant 

Crossings - Any existing un-used crossing(s) 
and/or layback(s) must be removed and the 
kerb/gutter and footpath reinstated/restored at 
the owners expense to Council's satisfaction.

Driveway Levels and Gradients

V46   Design – The Applicant shall submit a 

longitudinal driveway profile, which will show 
dimensions, levels and gradients, for Council 
approval. 

V47   Absolute Maximum Longitudinal Gradient - 

The absolute maximum longitudinal gradient 
of driveways shall not exceed 25% within 
the property and 10% in the footway (unless 
justification can be provided to vary these 
grades). Where the gradient exceeds 18%, 
a check is required using standard vehicle 
template (B85) to ensure that it does not scrape.  

If a pedestrian footpath exists or is required, the 
gradient across the footway must not exceed 
2.5% (1 in 40) where the footpath meets the 
driveway. 

The location of the footpath is to match existing 
or 450mm offset from the property boundary or 
as directed by Council’s Asset Engineer if no 
footpath currently exists. It may be necessary 
to transition existing footpaths both sides of the 
driveway to align with the new driveway such 
that cross fall across the footpath is maintained 
at not more than 2.5% (3% absolute maximum). 
Driveways are to be graded to fall towards the 
kerb wherever possible.   

V48   Changes in Gradients - Changes in gradients 

shall not exceed 12.5% algebraically (1 in 8) in a 
crest and 15% (1 in 6.7) in a depression (sag) to 
prevent vehicles scraping or bottoming.  

Changes in grades in excess of 12.5% (crest) 
and 15% (sag) will require the introduction of 
transitions. A minimum transition of 2.0 metres 
in length will be required (a 1.5 metres transition 
may be permitted if a template is overlaid onto 
the driveway profile which demonstrates that it 
will not scrape).  

V49   Compliance – Driveways shall be designed 
to match in with the topography of the site, 
and shall comply with AS/NZS 2890.1 - 2004, 
Parking Facilities, Part 1: Off-street car 
parking.  

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-279

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Council, at its discretion, may not approve 
a Driveway Application on the basis that the 
information provided to Council, at the time of 
approval, was in error or there are deficiencies 
in the information provided for Council to make 
an informed determination at the time of the 
assessment.

Driveway Material

V50   Concrete - All vehicle crossing slabs and 

laybacks are to be constructed in plain concrete 
with a minimum compressive strength of 32MPa 
at 28 days.  
Ready mixed concrete conforming to AS1379-
1973 shall be used. The Contractor is to arrange 
for certificates by the manufacturer to be given 
for all concrete delivered and shall be able to 
produce these to Council’s Representative upon 
request. 

V51   Cosmetic Pavement - Construction of driveways, 
within the road reserve, using brick pavers, 
coloured, stained, stamped or patterned 
concrete, pebblecrete, or any other cosmetic 
material other than plain concrete will not be 
approved. Only standard plain concrete finishes 
to vehicle crossings will be permitted.

V52   Base - Clean sand shall be used, free of any 

deleterious material, compacted and screeded 
to a smooth finish. Bedding thickness is to be a 
minimum of 50mm uniform thickness.  

Compact sand bedding to a minimum density 
index of 70 as per AS1289 5.6.1.  

For road base (DGB20), the standard shall be 
AS1289.5.2.1.

V53   Filling Material - Where filling under the 

proposed concrete is necessary, such filling 
shall consist of granular material of maximum 
size of 40mm and shall be spread in layers of a 
maximum thickness of 150mm and consolidated 
to provide a 95% compaction when tested under 
the modified proctor method.

Expansion and Construction Joints

V54   Expansion and Construction Joints - Shall be 
provided to the full depth of the slab, at each 
side of the slab and where required or as 
directed by Council.  

The joint shall be filled with a 12mm thick 
bitumen impregnated material such as a 
compressible mastic board. Other types of 
jointing material can only be used with the 
approval of Council.  

Expansion joints shall separate the concrete 
apron from the driveway area that it adjoins, in 
line with the leading edge of paths. 

V55   Concrete Footpaths - Concrete footpaths shall 

have expansion and tooled (dummy) joints 
installed at the widths as indicated below:

Slab Width 
(metres)

Tooled Joint 
(metres)

Expansion Joint 
(metres)

1.2

2.0

3.0

3.5

Finish

1.2

2.0

3.0

3.5

3.6

6.0

9.0

10.5

V56   Concrete Finish - The concrete surface shall 
be finished true and even, free from air and 
stone pockets, depressions and projections. The 
concrete shall be tamped and screeded to the 
correct surface levels and shall be given an even 
non-skid finish. 

The crossings are to be cove finished in 
the direction of the kerb and gutter unless it 
has a gradient steeper than 1 (vertical) to 5 
(horizontal), where it shall be finished with a 
wooden float and then grooved (ensure grooves 
do not create tripping hazard to pedestrians). 
The path section behind the apron shall be soft 
broom finished across the path. All edges of the 
slab shall be rounded with a 50mm edging tool.   

V57   Slip Resistance - In general, driveways should 
have a slip resistance appropriate for the 
pavement slope in accordance with AS3600.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-280

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Minimum Driveway Slab Thickness

Non-Compliance

V62   Non-compliance - Failure to comply with the 
conditions of this Document will result in the 
approval to carry out construction of the crossing 
being revoked. If works are constructed in 
non-conformity, Council will issue an order to 
have the area restored or remedied. 

V63   Recovery of Costs - The cost for reinstatement 
of non-complying works shall be recoverable by 
Council, for example, deducted from the Security 
Deposit held by Council. 

V58   Council Standards - All work is to be carried out 

in accordance with Council's standard details, 
Construction Specification for Concrete and 
Restoration Works, where applicable. 

V59   Minimum Thickness of Gutter Crossings - 

Gutters and gutter crossings (laybacks) shall 
have a minimum uniform thickness of 150mm or 
180mm for commercial and industrial sites.

V60   Minimum Thickness of Driveway Slabs - The 
minimum crossing slab thickness shall be in 
accordance with the following table:

Development Type

Minimum Slab 
Thickness (millimetres), 
Reinforcement

Residential

Commercial

Industrial

Residential Flat Buildings

110, SL62

180, SL72

180, SL72

150, SL72

V61   Minimum Thickness of Footpaths - Footpaths 

shall be a minimum of 75mm in thickness to 
match existing pathways unless under driveway 
in which the thickness shall be the same as for 
the driveway or as directed otherwise by Council

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-281

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Stormwater Management 

Objectives

Controls

SWM1   Uniform Guidelines - To provide uniform 

SWM5   Controls - To achieve the above objectives, the 

guidelines and applying control systems to 
achieve consistency, in the assessment and 
conditioning of Development Applications, 
in relation to stormwater runoff from all 
development types.

SWM2   Minimise Adverse Impact to Properties - To 
minimise any adverse impact on properties 
caused by stormwater runoff from all 
developments types.

SWM3   Minimise Impact on Water Quality - To ensure 

that the water quality of receiving waterways 
is not adversely affected by the discharge of 
pollutants such as nutrients and pathogens, 
from stormwater runoff as a result of 
development. 

SWM4   Uniform Controls - To ensure that uniform 

stormwater controls are applied throughout the 
whole of the City of Canada Bay Council Local 
Government Area.

following controls are applied:

•  For controls where the site is within a Flood 
Planning Area, refer to the Flood Planning 
Section of Council’s Development Control Plan.

•  The provision of safe overland flowpaths within 

developments and on public land.

•  The definition of floodways for major storms 
within developments and on public land.

•  The provision of controls such as on-site 

stormwater detention, community basins and 
the like and on-site retention systems to reduce 
and control stormwater runoff.

•  The application of alternative methods of merit 
based stormwater control and conveyance 
devices.

•  The removal of flood effected development 

from known floodways and the prohibition of 
future developments in such floodways.

•  The provision of minimum free-boards for 

assigning floor levels to reduce the risk of flood 
damage to property/s.

•  The installation of pipe/channel systems to 

minimise hazard to pedestrian and vehicular 
traffic caused by uncontrolled surface 
stormwater runoff.

•  The installation of water quality control 

devices such as trash screens, gross pollutant 
traps, water quality ponds and the like and 
encouraging the use of water sensitive urban 
design to protect the quality of receiving 
waters.

•  Depending on the development type and 
general site fall, the following stormwater 
control types would be applicable.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-282

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Development Type

Site slope/ Site drains to

Control Type

1

2

Front boundary

Rear boundary

Front boundary

Rear boundary

E, G

B, C, D, E, G

A*, F**

A+, B***, C, D, F**

3, 4, 4a

Front boundary

A, D++, F

Rear boundary

A+, B***, C, D++, F

5, 6, 7, 8, 9

Front boundary

A, D++, F, H

Rear boundary

A+, B***, C, D++, F, H

2, 3, 4, 4a, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9

Waterfront property or site drains to 
a public reserve or park

E, F, H

Key:

Development Type

1 - Demolition Only

2 - Alterations and additions

3 - New dwelling with existing footpath along frontage

4 - New dwelling with no existing footpath

4a - Dual occupancy, town homes etc.

5 - Residential Flat Building (RFB), commercial and mixed developments

6 - Development under SEPP Housing for Seniors or People with a Disability  

7 - Substantial Development

8 - Sub-division of one into two allotments

9 - "Greenfields" site, sub-division of more than two allotments

Stormwater Control System

A - On-site Stormwater Detention System (OSD)

B - On-site Retention System or absorption system (OSA)

C - "Charged" system

D - Mechanical Pump-out System 

E - Scour and erosion control system/devices

F - Rainwater Re-use System

G - Sediment Pond

H - Water Sensitive Urban Design (WSUD)

* Where additional impervious area increase of building or structure is 50sqm or more. 

** Where additional impervious area increase of building or structure is 40sqm or more

*** Geotechnical Investigation is required to support OSA design if more than 50sqm is to drain into the OSA

+ OSD is not required if all stormwater collected from impervious areas can be disposed by OSA

++ To drain basement or sub-floor areas only 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-283

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Overland Flow and Flood Studies

SWM8   Gutter Capacity - Where the proposal has 
the potential to obstruct natural flow paths, 
encroach over stormwater drainage easements, 
is a proposed driveway into a basement 
or sub-floor area, or the area proposed for 
development is potentially flood affected, an 
overland stormwater flow assessment or flood 
study will be required.

SWM9   Design Storm - The design storm to be used 

to determine the flowrate for the overland flow 
assessment or flood study shall be the peak 
100-year ARI storm event. Design guidelines 
are given in Section Stormwater Drainage 
Design.

Nuisance Overland Flooding to Low-Lying 
Habitable Floors and Basement Areas 

SWM6   Gutter Capacity - Where the proposed 

development will result in the exposure of low 
lying habitable floors or basements including 
sub-floor areas, garages and low level car 
parking areas to potential ingress of surface 
runoff, the determination of the street gutter 
capacity based on the peak runoff for the 
100-year ARI storm event will be required. This 
is to ensure that the likelihood of surface runoff 
from the street entering the proposed low lying 
areas does not occur.

SWM7    Flood Protection – For all low lying habitable 

floors or basements including sub-floor areas, 
garages and low level car parking areas, 
following determination of the 100-year ARI 
design storm and gutter capacity, if it is found 
that there is potential for surface stormwater 
to enter into the property or minimum free 
boards cannot be achieved, it will be necessary 
to introduce a crest in the driveway ramp, or 
relocate the basement entry to a location where 
it is not vulnerable to water ingress , or install 
flood gates or raise floor levels to provide 
adequate free board protection. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-284

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY On-site Stormwater Detention Systems

General

OSD1   Runoff Control - On-site Stormwater Detention 

(OSD) systems are to be implemented to 
control the rate of runoff from development 
sites and subdivisions to limit or reduce the 
rate of runoff to existing conditions or better.

OSD2   Alternative Methods - Alternative methods of 

stormwater control may be used but are merit 
based and would only be permitted if OSD is 
found to be of no benefit in attenuating flows 
and reducing the peak discharge downstream.

Exemptions

OSD3   Exemptions - OSD will be applied to the 

developments types as listed in the table under 
the Section Controls. Exemption from OSD 
would only apply in the following situations: 

•  The proposal is a residential development 
consisting of only alterations and additions 
to an existing dwelling where the additional 
increase in impervious area does not exceed 
50sqm outside the footprint of the existing 
building and the land naturally falls towards the 
property street frontage with direct access to a 
formed public road/street.

•  The runoff from the development is directly 

discharged into one of the bays or waterways 
and does not pass through any public drainage 
system (e.g. piped conduit, dish drain, open 
channels, kerb and gutter, public reserve, 
public roadway etc.) or that downstream 
properties could be adversely affected by the 
discharge from the development site.

•  An alternative method of stormwater disposal is 
applied such as an on-site absorption system, 
which fully caters for the site's runoff.

Site Storage Requirement and Permissible  
Site Discharge

OSD4   Catchment Based Method - The Catchment 

Based Method for determining the Site Storage 
Requirement (SSR) and Permissible Site 
Discharge (PSD) is to be used to size OSD 
systems for all development types except 
demolition works. The hydrological Site Based 
Method (ILSAX or DRAINS) is only to be used 
if more than 30% of the site cannot be routed 
through the OSD system.

OSD5    Design Parameters - OSD design parameters 

are as follows:

•  Site Storage Requirement (SSR) is 200cum  

per hectare.

•  The development consists of improvements 

•  Permissible Site Discharge (PSD) is 180L/s  

only to the existing building such as a second 
floor extension or internal refurbishments, 
which are wholly confined within the footprint of 
the existing building.

•  The development is located within a known 

flood affected area or subject to tidal influence. 
This does not include areas where it is affected 
by nuisance flooding caused by inadequate 
capacity of the drainage system. Council 
should be consulted on this matter for further 
clarification.

per hectare.

OSD6   Area for Calculating Volume and Discharge – 
For the Catchment Based Method, the area to 
be used in calculating the OSD volume (SSR) 
and discharge (PSD) shall be based on the 
total site area.  

For the hydrological Site Based Method, 
the PSD shall be calculated on a 0% 
pre-development site impervious area during 
the peak 5 year ARI storm event or 25L/s 
(which-ever is the smaller value in the case of 
discharge to the kerb) and the volume shall 
be sized on the basis of reducing the fully 
developed (post-development) site discharge 
for the peak 100 year ARI storm event back to 
the PSD. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-285

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY OSD7   Alterations and Additions - In the case of 
development type 2, where the proposed 
alterations and additions are to be completely 
separated from the existing building/s and 
represent less than 10% of the total site area, 
then the SSR and PSD can be determined from 
the proposed footprint of the additions only.  

OSD8   Maximum Site Discharge - The maximum 

discharge from the site must not be greater 
than the calculated PSD. This would include 
both piped and uncontrolled flows. That is, the 
total outflow from the site must not exceed the 
PSD.

OSD9   Concentrated Discharge - If the discharge 

from the development is to be concentrated at 
a single point (e.g. to the kerb and gutter) in 
the road reserve or public land, the maximum 
concentrated discharge is limited to 25L/s per 
15 lineal metre of frontage, for all storm events.

OSD14  Orifice equation - The orifice equation to be 

used is:  
Q = C.A.√ (2.g.h) 
Where   
D = diameter of orifice = √(4.A/π) in metres 
A = area of orifice hole in square metres  
π = pi = 3.1416 (dimensionless) 
g = acceleration due to gravity = 9.81 m/s2 
C = orifice coefficient (dimensionless). Ref table 
 h = depth of water to centre of orifice in metres

OSD15  Orifice Coefficient - Orifice coefficients are 

given in table below.

Orifice Type

Discharge Coefficient

Stainless steel flat plate 
with circular hole

Pipe stub 100mm long

0.6

0.8

High Early Discharge (HED) Control

Rainwater Re-use deductions

OSD16  HED Control Pit Type - The control pit in the 

OSD system must be a "High Early Discharge" 
(HED) arrangement for the Catchment Based 
Method. 

OSD17  Non HED Control Pit Type - If a HED control 
configuration is not used, then an additional 
20% volume must be added to the basic 
storage (SSR) for the Catchment Based 
Method.

OSD10  Rainwater Re-use Deductions - Rainwater 

re-use volume can be deducted from the 
calculated SSR only if the rainwater re-use 
volume has been obtained from the BASIX 
Certificate.  A maximum of 50% reduction is 
allowed. The PSD shall be retained for all 
controlled outflows.

Orifice controls

OSD11  Orifice Types - Orifice is to be a circular shaped 
hole drilled in a flat plate made from a stainless 
steel plate of 3mm thick and 200mm x 200mm 
minimum dimension. The orifice shall be 
formed to a circular square edged cut (circular 
hole is to be pre-drilled into the plate) and the 
plate permanently fixed to an oversized conduit 
or pipe stub if the hole is greater than 100mm.

OSD12  Permanent Fixture of Orifice - Dyna bolts or 
equivalent are to be used to permanently fix 
orifice plates.  For orifice stubs/pipes, the 
fixture is to be such that tampering and removal 
is minimised.

OSD13  Minimum Orifice Diameter - For orifice plates, 

the size of the orifice must not be less than 
50mm in diameter to avoid blockages.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-286

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Tail-water influence

Trash screens

OSD18  Orifice Control - The centre-line of the orifice 

must be higher than the water level at the 
point of connection into the existing receiving 
drainage system otherwise a "drowned orifice" 
or downstream control occurs.  

OSD19  Drowned Orifice - Where a "drowned orifice" 
occurs, supporting hydraulic calculations will 
need to be submitted to ensure that there is no 
loss in storage volume as a result.

OSD20  Control Types - Adopted water control levels 

are given in table below.

Discharge point

Water level to be adopted

Kerb and Gutter

At the top of kerb

Pipe outlet or culvert

Top of conduit if super- 
critical flow or "free outlet"

Depth as calculated if sub- 
critical flow

Pit

150mm above top of pit

Open channel

Depth as calculated

Waterway or Bay

Depth at High Tide

Site area to be routed through OSD

OSD21  Area to be routed through OSD System - The 

majority of the site runoff must be routed 
through the OSD facility.  

A maximum of 30% of the site is permitted 
to bypass the OSD system if the Catchment 
Based Method is to be used. The 30% bypass 
must not be made up of more than 50% of the 
site’s impervious areas.  

For the Site Based Method, a maximum of 
50% of the site is permitted to bypass the OSD 
system. This must be made up of at least 80% 
of the site’s impervious areas. 

OSD22  Adjustment of Volume and PSD due to Bypass 

for the Catchment Based Method. 

For a bypass of 30% of total site area, an 
additional 20% increase in the calculated SSR 
volume shall be applied and the PSD shall be 
reduced by 20%. Proportional increase of the 
basic volume and reduction of the PSD shall 
apply between 0% and 30% bypass.

OSD23  Purpose - A rustproof screen or cage is to 
be used to protect the outlet from potential 
blockages.

OSD24  Removable - The screen or cage must be 

removable for ease of maintenance and 
inspections.

OSD25  Material - The screen or cage is to be made 
from Lysaght’s maxi-mesh RH3030 or similar 
material. 

OSD26  Minimum Surface Area - The minimum surface 
area of the screen is to be 50 times the area of 
the orifice outlet.

OSD27  Location - The screen or cage shall completely 
protect the outlet.  It is to be located at a 
distance 1.5 times the orifice diameter or 
200mm away, whichever is the greater.  

OSD28  Orientation - Where possible, the main 

incoming line is to flow across the face of the 
mesh.

OSD29  Lifting Handle - The screen or cage shall 

include a lifting handle for ease of removal for 
inspection and maintenance.

Minimum requirements for underground    
OSD systems

OSD30  Purpose - Underground OSD systems shall be 

designed and located to attenuate and safely 
control stormwater runoff from the site to the 
public road gutter or receiving drainage system. 

OSD31  Overland Flow path - Where likely overflow 
from the OSD facilities pass through private 
property and a controlled and safe overland 
flow path cannot be provided, the overflow is 
to be fully contained within an underground 
piped drainage system with a design capacity 
equivalent to the peak 100-year ARI storm 
event. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-287

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY OSD32  Location - Underground OSD systems must 
be located external to all building footprints. 
This includes basements, ground floor parking 
areas, garages, or patios unless all access 
points and emergency overflow provisions are 
external to the structure. 

Underground OSD systems must be located 
outside the root zones of trees that are to be 
retained. 

Underground OSD systems must be located in 
areas which will not impede existing overland 
flow paths, or cause concentration or diversion 
of stormwater into public or private property/s 
resulting in the undermining of existing 
structures or services or jeopardising public 
safety or cause public nuisance. 

Where underground OSD systems are located 
under soft landscaped areas, it must have a 
minimum topsoil cover of not less than 600mm 
over the tank. 

Underground OSD systems are to be located 
where they can be easily accessible for 
inspections and routine cleaning.  

In this regard, for development types 4a, 5, 6 
and 7, the following requirements must be met:

•  The underground OSD facility must be located 
in common areas and not in private courtyards

•  The location of the underground OSD system 
is such as to ensure that the facility is located 
where easy unimpeded access is possible 
for routine inspections and maintenance 
requirements. It needs to be accessible for third 
party inspectors including Council

OSD33  Provision of Formal Surcharge Path - A formal 

surcharge path must be provided even when 
the 100-year ARI flows can be fully catered for 
by the system, to account for pipe blockages 
and higher intensity storms. 

OSD34   Easements - Easements must be created 

over private property/s for pipe systems and 
surcharge paths through adjoining property/s.

OSD36  Adequate Soundproofing - Underground OSD 
systems must be adequately soundproofed to 
minimise noise when stormwater is collected or 
discharged.

OSD37  Drainage of Base - The base of the OSD 

system must be graded to drain completely. 
Permanent water ponding in the tank 
encourages insect infestation and will not be 
acceptable. The base of the structure is to have 
a minimum longitudinal gradient of 0.7% to the 
outlet.

OSD38  Material - Underground OSD systems must 

be constructed from reinforced concrete, 
pre-fabricated material or proprietary system/s 
approved by Council. Atlantis units or similar 
type systems are not to be used for detention 
storage due to reduced storage and difficulties 
with maintenance and inspections.

OSD39  Inspection Access - Underground OSD systems 

must have at least one (1) inspection access 
opening over the outlet. This inspection point 
must be a minimum 600mm x 600mm in 
dimension. 

For ease of maintenance at least one (1) 
additional access at the extreme corner of the 
tank must be provided.  

Additional access or flushing points shall be 
provided for irregular shaped structures to 
allow for easier access for routine cleaning and 
maintenance. 

Underground OSD systems must have 
additional access points at distances of not less 
than 5000mm. 

Where the tank is less than 500mm in 
clearance height, gratings over the tank must 
be installed which cover at least 30% of the 
surface area of the structure.

OSD40  Confined Spaces - Underground OSD systems 

must comply with AS2865 Safe Working 
in a Confined Space and be appropriately 
designed to eliminate gas build-up.  

OSD35  Structural Adequacy - Underground OSD 

OSD41  Steps - Underground OSD systems must have 

systems are to be designed to be structurally 
sound and able to adequately withstand all 
service loads.

step irons when the depth exceeds 1200mm.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-288

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Minimum requirements for above-ground OSD 
systems in landscaped areas

OSD42  General - Above-ground OSD systems include 

areas where detention storage is provided 
in soft and hard landscaped area and above 
ground storage structures such as rainwater 
tanks.

OSD43  Purpose - As with Underground OSD systems, 

above-ground OSD systems are to be designed 
to collect, attenuate and safely control all 
stormwater runoff from the site to the public 
road gutter or drainage system.

OSD44  Overland Flow path - Where likely overflow 

from these OSD facilities is across private 
property and a suitable overflow path cannot be 
provided then the overflow shall be contained 
within an underground piped drainage system 
with a design capacity equivalent to the peak 
100-year ARI storm event. This underground 
system (both pits and pipes) shall be designed 
to receive and fully contain controlled flows and 
overflows from the OSD facility. 

OSD45  Location - Above-ground OSD systems must 
be located external to all building footprints, 
basements, ground floor parking areas, 
garages, or patios unless access points and 
emergency overflow provisions are either 
provided externally or are easy to get to for the 
purpose of inspections and maintenance to the 
system.

Above-ground OSD systems must not be 
located across the boundary/s of allotment/s.

Above-ground OSD systems must not be 
located such as to restrict pedestrian access 
from the public road to the building.

Where above-ground structures such as 
rainwater tanks are to be used, they must be 
located in an area least visually obtrusive and 
in compliance with Councils other planning 
requirements.

Above-ground OSD systems must be located 
where they can be easily accessible for 
inspections and routine cleaning. In this regard, 
for development types 4a, 5, 6 and 7, the 
following requirements must be met:

•  The OSD facility must be located in common 

areas and not in private courtyards

•  The location of the OSD system is such as to 
ensure that the facility is located where easy 
unimpeded access is possible for routine 
inspections and maintenance requirements

OSD46  Provision of Formal Surcharge Path - A 
formal surcharge path must be provided 
even when the 100-year ARI design flow is 
fully accommodated within the piped system 
to account for greater storm intensities and 
blockages. 

OSD47  Easements - Formal easements must be 

created on private property for pipe systems 
and surcharge paths.

OSD48  Adequate Soundproofing - Above-ground 
OSD systems must be adequately 
soundproofed to minimise noise when 
stormwater is collected or discharged.

OSD49  Adequate Waterproofing - The barrier around 
the perimeter of the OSD storage area must 
be constructed of masonry type material or 
a fully waterproof (prefabricated) material or 
equivalent.

OSD50  Accessibility of Control Structures - Control 

structures must be located where they can be 
easily accessible for routine inspections and 
cleaning.

OSD51  Drainage of OSD Base - The base of above-

ground OSD systems must be graded to 
drain completely. In soft landscaped areas, 
the gradient of the base must not be less 
than 1.0%.

OSD52  Subsoil Drainages - To avoid ground 

saturation in soft landscaped areas, subsoil 
drains shall be installed where gradients are 
less than 1.0%.

OSD53  Good Design - Above-ground OSD systems 
must be designed in a manner which 
minimises inconvenience, unsightliness and 
hazard and is compatible with the proposed 
development in terms of functionality and 
purpose.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-289

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY OSD54  Maximum Ponding Depths - Above-ground 
OSD systems must not allow water to pond 
more than 200mm in tennis court areas and 
other hard paved surface areas. 

Above-ground OSD systems may be 
allowed to pond more than 300mm in 
soft landscaped areas, provided that the 
following parameters are satisfied: 

•  Restricted access is enforced

•  Embankment batter slopes are greater than 

1 in 4

•  OSD basin is fully fenced off with approved 
pool fencing and childproof, self-closing 
gates with batter slopes into the basin, 
around its perimeter, not to exceed 1 in 6

•  The maximum depth of ponding in 
landscaped areas must not exceed 
1200mm, regardless of other restrictive 
measures implemented

Minimum requirements for above-ground OSD 
systems in driveways and car parking areas 

OSD55  Purpose - These OSD systems must be 

designed and located to collect, attenuate and 
safely control stormwater runoff from the site to 
the public road gutter or drainage system.

OSD56  Overland Flow path - Where likely overflow 

from these OSD facilities is across private 
property and a suitable overflow path cannot 
be provided, the overflow shall be contained 
within an underground piped drainage system 
with a design capacity equivalent to the peak 
100-year ARI storm event. This underground 
system (both pits and pipes) shall be designed 
to receive and fully contain controlled flows and 
overflows from the OSD facility. 

OSD57  Location - These above-ground OSD systems 
must be located external to all building 
footprints. This includes basements, ground 
floor parking areas, garages, or patios unless 
all access points and emergency overflow 
provisions are external to the structure. 

These above-ground OSD systems must not 
be located such as to restrict pedestrian access 
from the public road to the building. 

Control structures must be located where they 
can be easily accessible for routine inspections 
and cleaning.

OSD58  Provision of Formal Surcharge Path - A 

formal surcharge path must be provided even 
where the 100-year ARI design flow is fully 
accommodated within the piped system to cater 
for greater storm intensities and blockages. 

OSD59  Drainage of Base - To avoid localised ponding 
within the detention area, the base of the OSD 
system must be graded to drain completely, 
with gradients not less than 0.5% in concrete 
paved areas or similar and 0.7% in bitumen 
surfaced areas.

OSD60  Good Design - These above-ground OSD 

systems must be designed in a manner which 
minimises inconvenience, unsightliness and 
hazard and is compatible with the proposed 
development in terms of functionality and 
purpose.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-290

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY OSD61  Adequate Waterproofing - These above-ground 

Freeboard

OSD systems must be totally impermeable 
unless permeable pavement has been 
designed as a function provided any water 
penetration will not affect adjoining buildings, 
structures and the like.

OSD62  Maximum Ponding Depths - Water is not 

permitted to pond more than 200mm in depth 
for all storm intensities, in these above-ground 
OSD systems.

Overland Flows and Flow Paths

OSD63  Existing and Natural Overland Flow paths- 
Existing and natural overland flow paths for 
surface stormwater are to be maintained 
whenever possible.  

Overland flows or surface runoff collected 
from the site or passing through the site from 
upstream property/s is not permitted to be 
concentrated and channelled onto adjoining 
property/s. 

OSD64  Concentration of Overland Flow paths - Where 
surface runoff or overland flows become 
concentrated, they will need to be safely 
re-directed to the street or to the site's OSD 
facility.

OSD65  Diversion of Surface Runoff or Overland Flows 
to OSD System - Where concentrated surface 
runoff or overland flows are to be controlled 
through the OSD facility, the OSD system must 
be designed to cater for any additional inflow.

OSD66  Emergency Overland Flow path - To cater for 
unexpected blockages in the OSD system or 
additional runoff in excess of the design storm, 
provision must be made for an emergency flow 
path from the OSD system to the street such 
as installing overflow weirs or spillways. The 
width of overflow weirs shall not exceed more 
than 2000mm across any property frontage. 

OSD67  Designated Flow paths - Any likely overflow 
from these facilities must be fully contained 
within designated flow paths and must be 
conveyed safely to the nearest public road 
reserve or waterway.  

Designated flow paths shall be designed for 
the peak 100-year ARI storm event. Open 
channels, kerbs, pits and pipes may be used to 
contain runoff within the flow path. 

OSD68  Definition - Freeboard refers to the clearance 

distance between the maximum water level and 
the surface level of habitable floors and garage 
floors.

OSD69  Adequate Freeboard - Adequate freeboard 

or clearance distance between the maximum 
depth of ponding in the detention system 
and the finished floor level of all habitable 
areas, garages, storage facilities, etc., are 
to be provided so that damage to goods and 
materials, nuisance flooding, or hazard is 
avoided.

OSD70  Minimum Freeboard - The minimum freeboard 

requirements for OSD pondage are tabled 
below.

Maximum water 

Finished floor 

Minimum Freeboard 

level in (A)

level (B)

between (A) and (B)

Detention facility Warehouse

150mm

Detention facility

Factory

Detention facility Garage

Detention facility

Carport

150mm

150mm

150mm

Detention facility Office space

300mm

Detention facility

Habitable rooms

300mm

Detention facility

Living rooms

300mm

Detention facility

Retail space

300mm

Detention facility

Store rooms

300mm

Detention facility

Show rooms

300mm

*Important Note: Refer to Clause SW25 and the Flooding 
Control Section of Council’s Development Control Plan for 
freeboard requirements in flood prone land.

All proposed developments are generally prohibited in 
known flood areas, flood ways and flood zones unless 
it can be demonstrated that a fail safe emergency 
evacuation route can be provided for occupants and that 
the proposed development will not cause an increase of 
the flood waters both upstream and downstream of the 
proposed development. 

Council's Stormwater Policy is for the removal of such 
flood affected developments from known flood ways and 
the prohibition of future developments in such floodways, 
wherever possible, to protect life and amenity.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-291

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Discharge Points

OSD71  Maximum Concentrated Stormwater Runoff - 

The maximum concentrated stormwater runoff 
allowed to be discharged to the kerb and 
gutter at any single point is 25L/s even if the 
permissible site discharge exceeds this rate. 

If more than 25L/s must be discharged, the 
following alternatives may be considered:

•  Alternative 1 - Discharge made directly to the 
nearest Council piped drainage system, or to 
an approved piped drainage system or lay a 
new pipe and pit system to connect into the 
existing drainage infrastructure. This new line 
shall be designed and installed to Council's 
standards and will become a public system. 
Note: Approval under Section 138 of the Roads 
Act 1997 will be required

•  Alternative 2 - The detention system is upsized 
(where on-site detention is required) to accept 
additional flows such as to limit the outflow to 
25 L/s

•  Alternative 3 - If there is sufficient property 

frontage width to enable split flows to the kerb 
at a minimum distance of 15 metres apart 
between kerb outlets

•  Alternative 4 - Discharge directly into a 

watercourse or channel or to a stormwater 
channel or to the Bay, subject to joint approval 
from Council and other relevant governing 
authority. Adequate protection against scour and 
erosion at the point of discharge must be provided

OSD72  Maximum Discharge Velocity - The maximum 

discharge velocity into an unlined, that is, other 
than concrete channel shall be in accordance 
with the Department of Sustainable Natural 
Resources document Managing Urban 
Stormwater, Soils and Construction, table 
5.1 maximum discharge flow velocities in 
waterways.

OSD73  Approval for Connection into Existing Council 
Piped Drainage System - Connection into an 
existing Council piped drainage system may be 
permitted subject to Council approval. 

OSD74  Construction of New Piped System - If direct 

connection outside of the property frontage 
cannot be obtained, for example, the nearest 
piped system is more than 10 metres or 
one property frontage away (whichever is 
the smaller distance), this will require the 

construction of new inlet pits and the laying 
of a new pipeline, to Council standards, to 
connect into the existing line. Minimum Council 
design standards are given in Section under 
Stormwater Drainage Systems.

OSD75  Minimum Drainage Infrastructure - Council 
encourages minimising the number of pits, 
junctions and pipe lengths in the road reserve. 
However, pits are preferable over bend joins 
to eliminate blind junctions such that ease of 
maintenance can be achieved.    

OSD76  Private Stormwater Drainage System - Any 

private stormwater pipe leaving the site, must be 
laid at an angle of not less than 45 degrees to the 
front boundary line. If the pipe needs to be laid 
at a more acute angle or must run parallel with 
the kerb line in order to achieve gravity discharge 
to the kerb or connection into an under-ground 
system, then it must be taken to the kerb at 45 
degrees and then a minimum 375-dia RCP is to 
be laid parallel to the kerb line connecting into the 
nearest downstream underground public drainage 
system. Standard gully inlet pits with minimum 
1.2 metre long kerb lintels (subject to required 
inlet capacities) will need to be constructed at all 
bends, junctions and minimum distances between 
pits as described in Australian Rainfall and 
Runoff, volume 1.  

OSD77  Equivalent Conduit Sizes - Conduits laid to 

the kerb face must be sized to cope with the 
design flow and with at least 50mm cover. 
Where cover is inadequate, the following pipe 
equivalencies shall be used:

•   100mm-dia equivalent to one (1) 100mm x 

100mm x 6mm thick RHS

•   150mm-dia equivalent to one (1) 200mm x 

100mm x 6mm thick RHS

•   225mm-dia equivalent to two (2) 200mm x 

100mm x 6mm thick RHS

OSD78  Outlets through Sandstone Kerbing - Outlets 

laid through existing sandstone kerbing will 
require drilling through sandstone kerb subject 
to Council approval. 

OSD79  Pipe Class - The pipe class must be adequate 

to withstand proposed traffic loads. 

OSD80  Rectangular Hollow Sections - All Rectangular 

Hollow Sections (RHS) are to be hot-dipped 
galvanised or stainless steel material.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-292

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Discharge to Different Catchment

Legal Obligations

OSD81  Gravity Drainage - Stormwater is to be drained 

OSD86  Positive Covenant and Restriction on the Use 

of Land – All OSD facilities other than those 
located in single residential dwellings and type 
– 2 alteration & additions developments will 
require a Positive Covenant and Restriction on 
the use of land, in favour of the City of Canada 
Bay Council on the Title. 

OSD87   Purpose of Positive Covenant - The purpose of 

the Covenant is to ensure that the registered 
proprietor of the land is made aware and 
takes responsibility for the control, care and 
maintenance of the OSD system. 

OSD88   The Purpose of Restriction on the Use of Land 

- The purpose of the Restriction ensures that 
the system cannot be altered in any manner, 
shape or form.

OSD89   Newly Created Allotments - For newly created 

parcels of land, these terms shall be created 
under Section 88B of the Conveyancing Act 
1919. 

OSD90   Existing Land - For existing titles, the terms of 
Positive Covenant and Restriction on the use 
of land shall be created by an application to 
the Land Titles Office using Forms 13PC and 
13RPA.

OSD91  Standard Wording - Standard wording for 

Positive Covenant and Restriction on the use of 

in the same direction as the natural fall of the 
land by gravity means. 

OSD82  Diversion of Stormwater to Different Catchment 
- Diverting stormwater runoff from one 
catchment (or sub-catchment) to another 
catchment (or sub-catchment) is generally 
prohibited. 

OSD83  Approval for Drainage to Different Catchment 

- Approval for drainage "against the natural fall 
of the land" is only permitted in the following 
circumstances:

•  Adjacent downstream property owner/s have 
indicated that they are not prepared to grant 
easement/s to permit the drainage of the low 
lying property to follow the natural fall of the 
land. Proof of genuine attempt at easement 
acquisition in the form of correspondence will 
be required

•  An assessment of the receiving drainage 

system confirms that it can adequately cope 
with the additional runoff proposed to be 
discharged

OSD84  Drainage "Against Fall of Land" - Where 
drainage "against the fall of the land" is 
permitted, On-site stormwater Detention will be 
required, regardless of the development type. 
The volume and discharge is to be calculated 
on the area being directed to the outlet. 

OSD85  Low-Lying Property Drainage - For low lying 
properties, on-site absorption (OSA) may be 
used for the disposal of runoff from on-ground 
paved or roof areas that are unable to be 
collected and taken to the street frontage. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-293

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY land are given in the Appendix.

*Important Note: Design Constraints apply

On-site Stormwater Absorption 
Systems

General

OSA1    Application - On-site stormwater absorption 

(OSA) systems may be used for disposal of the 
site's stormwater runoff. Refer to the Section 
under Controls for when it can be applied.  

OSA systems can be used to dispose of 
stormwater on the site subject to the suitability 
of soil conditions and site constraints. Typical 
OSA systems include rubble drains, rubble 
trenches, and on-ground infiltration systems. 

OSA can be used as an alternative method of 
stormwater disposal for 'low lying' properties 
where an easement through adjoining 
downstream properties cannot be obtained.

Design Principles

OSA3   Location - OSA systems are to be located in 
'soft' landscape areas, such as in the garden 
and vegetated on-ground areas. In 'hard' 
landscape areas, the use of porous pavement 
(pervious paving) is preferred. 

Absorption systems shall not be located under 
or over any sewer service without Sydney 
Water approval. 

Absorption systems are not to be located in 
rock (most non-sedimentary rocks and some 
sedimentary rocks such as shale) which has 
zero or near-zero permeability. Where rock is 
encountered, the base of any proposed gravel 
filled trench shall be set at least 500mm above 
the rock. 

OSA systems are not permitted in shallow soil 
over bedrock.   

Absorption trenches must follow the line of 
contours.

OSA2   Standard Design Methodology - The OSA 

OSA4   Access - For routine inspections and 

system shall be appropriately sized, based on 
the area to be captured, using the methodology 
as given in the following table: 

Total Impervious 
Area to be 
captured (sqm)

OSA Design Methodology*

≤ 50

>50

Standard trench detail - 'Jumbo 
410' type or equivalent material 
(refer to Appendix). 

The trench length is to be 4 
metres for every 25sqm of 
catchment (hard stand, roof) 
area draining to it. 

Geotechnical Report to be 
prepared by a Geotechnical 
Engineer.

Trench area and volume 
calculated from soil 
infiltration rate and Report 
recommendations. Mass Curve 
Method can be used.

maintenance, an access chamber is to be 
provided at either end of the OSA system. 

OSA5   Water Sensitive Urban Design (WSUD) - OSA 

systems may be used in combination with 
WSUD systems and integrated as part of its 
performance principals.

OSA6   Design Storm Event - Runoff generated from 
the development must be fully catered for by 
the absorption system, for all storm events up 
to and including the 100-yr ARI storm event.  

OSA7   Soil Type - Soils to be used for OSA systems 

must not be predominantly loose aeolian 
sands or clay soils.  

Suitable soils must have a uniform thickness of 
at least 3.0 metres.   

A soil assessment and permeability test 
is required from a qualified Geotechnical 
Engineer where runoff is collected from an area 
greater than 50sqm. 

Suitable soils must have hydraulic conductivity 
values greater than 1 x 10-6 m/s and the 
minimum absorption rate to be adopted shall 
be limited to 1.0 L/sqm per second irrespective 
of the absorption rate achieved by any 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-294

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY geotechnical testing.

overflow outlet.

OSA8   Minimum Clearance from Structures and 

Buildings - Clearance distance between all 
buildings, footings, structures and downstream 
boundaries are to be at least 3.0 metres from 
the proposed OSA system.  

Minimum clearances are not to be reduced 
without a supporting Geotechnical Report. 

The minimum clearance distance between 
sewer mains and the proposed absorption 
system is to be at least 1.0 metre unless 
approved by Sydney Water. Where clearance 
between buildings or structures to the OSA 
system cannot be provided, the structure is to 
be supported on a pier and beam system to a 
minimum 300mm below the base of the OSA 
system, which must be certified by a Structural 
Engineer.  

OSA9   Steep Sites - Absorption systems will not 
be permitted on 'steep' sites with slopes 
greater than 5%, unless there is a supporting 
Geotechnical Report.

OSA10  High Water Table - Absorption systems will not 

be permitted where there is the presence of 
a high water table or the location of the OSA 
system would likely cause the water table to 
rise. 

Where a high water table is encountered, the 
base of any proposed gravel filled trench shall 
be set at least 500mm above the water table.

OSA11  Sediment Traps and Trash Screens - Runoff 

directed into the OSA system must pass 
through an approved silt trap and filter system 
to remove all debris, silts, sands, etc. prior to 
absorption.

OSA12  Dispersion System - To ensure any overflows 

from the OSA system are not concentrated 
onto adjoining downstream properties, a 
dispersion system shall be provided at the 

Charged Systems

General

CH1  

 Application - 'Charged Systems' refers to a 
network of sealed or watertight stormwater 
drainage pipes which convey stormwater under 
constant pressure, requiring sufficient hydraulic 
head to move water.  

Where a site naturally falls to the rear and the 
property is not benefited by any stormwater 
drainage easement and following unsuccessful 
attempts at obtaining a drainage easement and 
other drainage disposal methods such as OSA, 
have been found to be inappropriate for the 
site, then charged systems may be considered, 
to convey stormwater to the street frontage.  
Refer to Section Controls, for when it can be 
applied.  

Charged systems are generally not to be 
used if a gravity feed system is available to 
dispose of stormwater off the site to the nearest 
downstream Council drainage system.  

Important Note: Charged systems are only 
permitted when used in combination with 
rainwater re-use facilities.

CH2  

 Permissibility - Charged systems may only be 
used if:

•  Genuine attempt at easement acquisition 

has been undertaken and the downstream 
property owner/s have indicated that they are 
not prepared to grant easement/s to permit the 
drainage of the property to follow the natural 
fall of the land - written evidence is to be 
submitted as proof

•  The soil absorption characteristics and 

other physical constraints indicate that an 
OSA system is not feasible to cater for the 
development. A Geotechnical Report, indicating 
that the soil has very poor absorption rate, may 
be submitted as proof

•  The existing street drainage system and gutter 
capacity must have sufficient capacity to cope 
with the additional runoff and not result in 
nuisance or flooding to 'low level' property/s. 
A check of the gutter capacity is required to 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-295

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY ensure stormwater does not overtop the kerb 
into low lying property/s

to be designed for the 1 in 100-year ARI storm 
event.

CH10   Minimum Height of Pressure Head - The 

minimum height difference between the roof 
gutter level and the discharge pit must be at 
least 2.0 metres unless supporting calculations 
showing a hydraulic grade line for the 1 in 
100-year ARI storm event indicates that the 
system can drain to the street with a 300mm 
free board to the gutter line.

CH11   Gravity Feed to Street - The charged line 

must discharge to a sump within the property 
boundary and then gravity fed to the street or 
receiving drainage system.  

Where gravity feed to the street is not 
achievable, a non-return valve must be 
installed over the inlet pipe to the sump. 

CH12   Location of Surcharge Pits - Surcharge pits 

are to be located such that any likely overflow 
is safely directed to the street or away from 
structures and buildings.

CH13   Minimum Pipe Sizes for Pressure Application 
- Pipes must be minimum 150mm-dia in size 
for pressure applications and solvent welded 
unless hydraulic calculations support that a 
smaller pipe can be used. Pipes less than 
80mm-dia will not be acceptable.

CH14   Cleaning Eyes - Cleaning eyes within a sump 

must be installed at the lowest point in the 
system.

CH15   Gutter Guards - Gutter guards are to be 
installed to minimise debris entering the 
charged system.

Design Principles

CH3   Permissible Site Discharge - The rate of runoff 

discharged to the street must not exceed the 
Permissible Site Discharge (PSD) calculated 
from Section On-site Stormwater Detention 
Systems. 

The PSD is 180L/s per ha and calculated only 
on the area being discharged/directed to the 
outlet.

CH4   Combination of OSD, OSA and Charged 

Systems - The design of a charged system 
may be used in combination with an OSD and/
or OSA system to minimise the runoff to the 
street. 

CH5  

 Watertight System - Charged lines may be 
taken directly from the roof gutter to the street 
and must be fully watertight.

CH6   Rainwater Re-use Overflows - Overflows from 
the rainwater re-use system are to be drained 
to the external drainage system, OSD or 
OSA system if these have been designed to 
accommodate the runoff.

CH7   Directing runoff to the street - If the charged 

system is to be directly taken to the street, 
details and supporting calculations need to be 
provided showing that sufficient pressure head 
can be generated to direct flows to the street. 

CH8   Outflows from OSD systems under pressure 

-Outflows from OSD systems are generally 
to be by gravity feed ('free outlet' control). 
However, 'drowned outlets' may be permitted 
if supporting calculations can be provided 
showing that sufficient pressure head can 
be generated to direct flows to the street via 
a charged system and that the permissible 
discharge for the site can be maintained. A 
suitable hydrological program such as DRAINS 
can be used to model such situations. 

CH9   Design Storm Event - The charged drainage 

system including roof gutters pipes and pits is 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-296

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Mechanical Pump-out Systems

General

MP1   Application - Mechanical pumps are to be used 

generally to convey sub-surface, or seepage 
water in a basement (sub-floor) area or to drain 
minor surface runoff collected from weather 
exposed areas (e.g. vehicular ramp) of less 
than 50m2 or 100m2 for development Types 5, 
6 and 7.

MP2   Pumping of Stormwater - The pumping out of 

stormwater runoff in general is only permitted if:

•  Gravity drainage cannot be achieved

•  Genuine attempt at easement acquisition 

has been undertaken and the downstream 
property owner/s have indicated that they are 
not prepared to grant easement/s to permit the 
drainage of the property to follow the natural 
fall of the land - written evidence is to be 
submitted as proof.

•  A 'charged system' cannot be installed because 

it does not satisfy Charged System Design 
Principles

•  An OSA system cannot be installed because it 

does not satisfy OSA Design Principles

•  There is no possibility of nuisance or flooding 

or damage to adjoining buildings and structures 
in the event of pump failure. 

•  The capacity of the receiving drainage system 
or kerb/gutter is capable of carrying/containing 
the flows. Council may request for gutter or 
system capacity calculations to support the 
proposal.

MP3   Disposal of Sub-surface Water – Because it 
is a relatively constant source that promotes 
algal growth and constant wetness, draining of 
sub-surface water, whether by pumping or by 
gravity; either directly or indirectly, to the kerb 
is not permitted except by way of a controlled 
release specifically and separately approved 
under Section 138.1(d) of the Roads Act 1993. 
Generally it is preferable to connect such 
sources to the nearest public underground 
drainage system. If that is not feasible and 
a thorough investigation has exhausted all 
acceptable alternatives then Council will 
consider an application for controlled release to 
the kerb. 

Alternative methods of seepage water disposal 
and controlled release parameters are given in 
Section Subsurface Water.

MP4   Where Council determines that mechanical 

pump out system (subsurface inflow or surface 
runoff) can negatively impact on the Council’s 
infrastructure assets or is likely to cause 
nuisance flooding to adjacent properties, the 
applicant/the owner will need to adopt one or 
more the requirements below;

• Extension of the existing drainage system to 
enable a direct connection to underground 
drainage system.

• Acquisition of drainage easement to drain the 
subject property towards the fall of the land.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-297

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY •  The switching of the pumps shall be arranged 

so that they operate alternately

•  The pumps shall be provided with automatic 

level switches so that they operate 
simultaneously should the capacity of the tank 
be exceeded

•  An automatic alarm system shall be provided to 
warn of failure of any part of the pump system

•  The alarm shall have visual indicators and an 

audible alarm siren

•  A rechargeable battery back-up system for the 
alarm is to be provided in the event of power 
failure

Legal Obligations

MP6   Positive Covenant and Restriction on the 

Use of Land - Mechanical pump-out systems 
regardless of whether or not used as OSD 
systems shall require the creation of a Positive 
Covenant and Restriction on the Use of Land 
affixed to the title requiring the owner of the 
property to maintain the system, not tamper 
with the system and indemnifying Council 
against liability in respect of any damage 
sustained as a result of the failure of the 
pump system and damage to neighbouring 
property or any other cause not in Council's 
control, and providing for regular inspection 
by the proprietor. Refer to Section On-site 
Stormwater Detention Systems, Section 
under Legal Obligations. 

Design Principles

MP5   Minimum requirements for Mechanical 

Pump-out Systems - The minimum 
requirements for mechanical pump-out systems 
for stormwater apply as follows:

•  The pump-out system shall consist of two 

(2) mechanical pumps, connected in parallel, 
with each pump being capable of emptying 
the holding tank at a rate equal to the peak 
100-year ARI, 5 minute duration storm event. 
Any subsurface inflow rate during wet weather 
determined by an approved test procedure or 
estimated value is to be included

•  The mechanical pump must be capable of 
draining the surface runoff collected from 
weather exposed areas of not less than 50m2 
or 100m2 for Types 5, 6 and 7

•  The capacity of the holding tank shall be 
calculated as above the level at which all 
pumps are automatically brought into operation

•  The minimum capacity (volume) of the 

holding tank well shall be adequately sized 
in accordance with AS/NZS3500.3.2 - 1998, 
National Plumbing and Drainage, Part 3.2: 
Stormwater drainage - acceptable solutions, 
but based on the 100-year ARI, 5 hours design 
storm.

•  A silt trap shall be provided on the inlet side of 

the holding tank

•  The rising main from the pump system shall be 
designed and installed in accordance with the 
pump manufacturer's specification

•  The rising main from the pump system 

shall discharge to a stilling sump within the 
property boundary and then gravity fed to the 
underground receiving drainage system or to 
an OSD system if the OSD system is piped to 
an underground receiving drainage system

•  A one-way valve is to be installed on the rising 
main outlet. The stilling sump is to be located 
such that any likely overflow is safely directed 
to the street and away from adjoining buildings 
and structures

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-298

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Development Type

Control Type

1

E*

2, 3, 4, 4a, 6, 8

A, B, E*, F, H

A, B, E*, F, G*, H

5, 7

Key:

Development Type

1 - Demolition only

2 - Alterations and additions

3 - New dwelling with existing footpath along frontage

4 - New dwelling with no existing footpath

4a - Dual occupancy, town homes etc.

5 - Residential Flat Building (RFB), commercial and mixed  
     developments

6 - Development under SEPP Housing for Senior Citizens or    
     People with a Disability  

7 - Substantial development

8 - Sub-division of one into two allotments

Water Quality Treatment System

A - On-site Stormwater Detention System (OSD)

B - On-site Retention System or Absorption System (OSA)

C - "Charged" System

D - Mechanical Pump-out System 

E - Scour and Erosion Control System/Devices

F - Rainwater Re-use System

G - Sediment Pond/Water Quality Device 

H - Water Sensitive Urban Design (WSUD)

* denotes mandatory requirement 

Scouring, Erosion and Water      
Quality Control

General

SC1  

 Application - Where discharge of stormwater 
is to a natural watercourse, into bushland/
reserve, property or water way, adequate 
controls are required to protect these adjoining 
properties, bushland, roadways and receiving 
waters from erosion and degradation due to 
pollution, silt laden stormwater runoff and/or 
high concentration of runoff. 

SC2   Scour and Erosion Control Devices - 

Notwithstanding other stormwater controls that 
may be required such as OSD (flow attenuating 
devices) or OSA, appropriate scour and 
erosion control devices are to be installed at 
the outflow to the system.

Minimum Requirements

SC3   Application - The installation of scour and 

erosion control devices and other stormwater 
management measures are required as follows:

•  Appropriate scour protection devices installed 

at all outlets to stormwater conduits

•  Additional installation of pollution control 

devices at the source, on-line*, off-line or at 
the end of the line to control sediment laden 
overland stormwater flows

•  Stormwater management measures shall not 
be located on-line in water courses or within 
riparian zones or areas of remnant native 
vegetation

•  Where the volume of runoff is considered 

high, it may be appropriate to include an OSD 
(for sites larger than 1200 sqm) and/or OSA 
system/s to reduce runoff into the receiving 
waterway

•  The type of available control or treatment 

required for each development type that drains 
directly into a natural watercourse, bushland/
reserve, or water way are tabled below:

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-299

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
SC4   Pollutant Load to be Retained - Water quality 
treatment systems or pollution control devices 
such as sediment ponds where required to be 
installed are to ensure the following pollutant 
loads are retained on the site:

Pollutant Type

Percentage Retention of 
Post-development Loads

Total suspended solids 
(TSS)

80%

Total phosphorus (TP)

45%

Total Nitrogen (TN)

45%

Gross Litter

All Litter - 70%       
Material (>50mm) - 70%

SC5   Monitoring Water Quality - Water quality 

treatment systems or pollution control devices 
are to be installed and monitored regularly 
to ensure that they achieve their treatment 
objectives and that their performance meets the 
above criteria. If they fail to meet these targets, 
or if so required by the Appropriate Regulatory 
Authority (ARA), it shall be modified to achieve 
them and the system upgraded.

SC6   Ease of Maintenance - Water quality treatment 

systems or pollution control devices are to be 
designed to ensure ease of maintenance.

SC7   Scour Protection - Scour protection devices 
shall include embankment stabilisation e.g. 
rock walls, concrete aprons, gabions, turfing, 
jute mesh, energy dissipating units, or other 
more appropriate erosion control devices 
approved by Council. Preference is for 'soft 
engineering' solutions. 

SC8   Control Devices near Creeks - Stormwater 
pollution control devices may not be 
appropriate within or adjacent to creek 
locations. In this regard, The Department of 
Planning and NSW Fisheries shall be contacted 
for advice about suitable erosion control 
measures here.

SC9  

First Flush - Stormwater pollution control 
devices to remove pollutants during the 
'first flush', shall be installed within the site. 
These include proprietary items such as 
Humeceptors or CDS units, silt and grease 
arrestors. Installation of these devices shall 
be in accordance with the manufacturer's 
specification. 

SC10   Large Scale Control Devices - Other sediment 

control devices such as stilling basins and 
constructed wetlands shall be required for 
large-scale or substantial developments. These 
include land and community title subdivisions. 
Design of these devices shall be in accordance 
with the Managing Urban Stormwater, Soils 
and Construction Manual issued by the NSW 
Department of Housing.

SC11   Silt Traps - Silt traps are to be installed in all 
stormwater pits to contain silt and debris. Silt 
traps shall be installed at the bottom of pits at 
a depth of 200mm to capture silts and fines. 
Weep holes shall be drilled into the base of the 
pit to ensure that it does not permanently hold 
water and create a breeding ground for insects. 
Where the pit is located over impervious 
material, a 100mm layer of gravel bedding with 
subsoil drains will also need to be laid.

Soil and Water Management

SC12   Soil and Water Management Plan - A soil 

and water management plan is required 
for all development types, except for minor 
developments, for example extension to an 
existing dwelling of less than 50sqm.  

Minimum guidelines shall be in accordance with 
the Managing Urban Stormwater, Soils and 
Construction Manual by the NSW Department 
of Housing, August 1998.

SC13  

Installation and Maintenance - All sediment 
control devices are to be installed prior to any 
commencement of clearing and earthworks on 
the site. Ongoing maintenance of these devices 
during construction will be required.

SC14   Maintenance Schedule - For large scale 

developments, residential flat buildings and 
mixed used developments, a maintenance 
schedule is to be kept on site to ensure that the 
devices are cleaned on a regular basis.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-300

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Rainwater Re-use

General

RR1  

 Application - Notwithstanding BASIX water 
conservation targets, the collection of 
rainwater for non-potable use is encouraged. 
Non-potable water usage shall include watering 
of the garden, irrigation, washing machine and 
toilet flushing. 

RR6   Submission of a Development Application - 

Where it is proposed to install a rainwater tank 
only, a Development Application (DA) would 
need to be lodged if the volume of the proposed 
rainwater tank exceeds 10,000 L. No DA would 
be required if the proposed rainwater re-use 
volume is less than 10,000 L or if the rainwater 
harvesting proposal forms part of a DA for 
Development Types 2, 3, 4, 4a, 5, 6 and 7. 

Minimum Requirements

On-site Stormwater Detention Offset

RR2   BASIX Certificate Requirements - Rainwater 
re-use shall be provided in accordance with 
BASIX Certificate requirements.  

BASIX is a web-based planning tool designed 
and developed by Department of Planning in 
association with other government agencies 
and utilities to assess the water and energy 
efficiency of new residential developments.   

The NSW Government introduced BASIX into 
the development approval system on 1 July 
2004.  

RR3   Rainwater Re-use - Part of BASIX requires the 

installation of rainwater re-use facilities. The 
volume of storage required depends on the 
size of the dwelling, the number of amenities 
and other site factors. Further details can be 
obtained at www.basix.nsw.gov.au. 

RR4   Council's Rainwater Re-use Volume - Council 

requires a minimum volume of 3,000L for 
residential developments (Development 
Types 2 and 3 only) and 5,000L for the other 
developments (Development Types 4a, 5, 6, 
and 7). 

RR5   Minimum Rainwater Re-use Volume to be 

provided - The minimum re-use volume to be 
provided shall be the greater of the volume 
determined from the BASIX Certificate and 
Council's minimum Rainwater Re-use volume.   

Additional storage is also encouraged but is 
subject to Council's planning requirements. 

RR7   Exemption from OSD - The provision of a 

rainwater re-use system does not negate the 
requirements for OSD, if required, as stipulated 
in Section On-site Detention System, 
Controls. 

RR8   Reduction of OSD from Rainwater Re-use - 

The calculated basic OSD storage volume 
(ref. Section On-site Detention System) 
can be reduced by a portion of the rainwater 
re-use volume as calculated from the BASIX 
Certificate or Council’s Rainwater Re-use 
volume. 

A maximum of fifty percent (50%) of the 
required volume (BASIX Certificate minimum 
volume or Council’s Rainwater Re-use 
volume) can be deducted from the basic OSD 
calculated site storage volume. Additional 
storage deduction or volume beyond what has 
been determined from the BASIX Certificate 
or Council’s Rainwater volume will not be 
permitted. 

The re-use volume shall be deducted from the 
calculated OSD volume by straight subtraction 
of the volumes.  

The permissible site discharge (PSD) is not 
required to be adjusted.

RR9   Dual Usage - Dual usage for both OSD and 

re-use in the same tank is permitted. However 
it must be noted that stormwater collected for 
re-use must not include runoff collected from 
on-ground areas, balconies and sub-floor areas 
(sub-surface water). Only stormwater collected 
from roof areas can be stored for re-use. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-301

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY RR10   Permitted Use - Rainwater collected for 

re-use is classified as non-potable and is only 
permitted for use in the flushing of toilets, 
laundry clothes washing, irrigation systems 
including watering the garden and must not be 
used for human consumption in accordance 
with Sydney Water guidelines.

RR11   When designing dual-purpose tanks, 

consideration must be made for the collection 
of rainwater from the site, noting that OSD 
control generally applies to the total site 
area but stormwater collected for the re-use 
component can only be collected from the 
roof of dwellings. A dual-purpose OSD/re-use 
system that collects only rainwater from the 
roof may result in much of the stormwater 
from the site area to bypass the OSD 
system. Therefore the design must take into 
consideration of the majority of the site's runoff, 
especially the roofed and impervious areas, 
to ensure that it can be controlled through the 
OSD system. 

Stormwater Drainage Design

General

SW1   Application - This Section provides the 

minimum design guidelines for both private and 
public stormwater drainage systems. 

Stormwater drainage systems referred to 
herewith are the systems which are designed 
to convey stormwater runoff. This includes 
property drainage, street drainage (both piped 
and surface flow paths), and trunk drainage 
(larger conduits, open channels) and receiving 
waters (rivers, creeks, groundwater storage, 
sea and ocean). 

SW2   Purpose - Stormwater drainage systems are to 
be designed to collect and convey stormwater 
runoff from a site to a receiving waterway with 
minimal nuisance, danger to life or damage to 
properties. 

Minimum Requirements

SW3  

 Australian Rainfall and Runoff Handbook 
- Stormwater drainage systems shall be 
designed in accordance with the Australian 
Rainfall and Runoff Handbook utilising the 
"major" and "minor" system design criteria.

SW4   Gravity Drainage - Stormwater runoff shall be 
conveyed to follow the natural fall of the land, 
by gravity means, wherever possible. The 
design of "Charged Systems" is not covered 
in this Section. Charged systems are not 
acceptable for public drainage systems.

SW5   Re-directing Stormwater - Re-directing 

stormwater runoff from one catchment (or 
sub-catchment) to another catchment (or 
sub-catchment) is generally prohibited. 

SW6   Public Drainage systems - Public stormwater 

drainage systems must be designed as gravity 
systems. For private stormwater drainage 
systems, an alternative to gravity drainage will 
only be considered where easement acquisition 
is unsuccessful and on-site disposal such as 
OSA is not possible.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-302

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY SW7   Minimising the Quantity and Improving the 
Quality of Stormwater Runoff - Stormwater 
quantity and quality (pollutants) shall be 
minimised by designing the system with the 
following criteria:

•  Have adequate sub-surface drainage to provide 
protection to structures, and prevent long term 
water ponding

•  Have adequate inlets to collect and convey 
surface stormwater runoff to prevent water 
from entering buildings or damage structures, 
minimise nuisance and danger to persons and 
vehicular traffic, prevent long term surface 
water ponding, prevent erosion, and protect 
adjoining and downstream properties from 
any adverse impacts as a result of stormwater 
runoff from proposed developments

•  Include a system of overland flowpaths, where 

possible, to provide fail-safe protection to 
buildings, structures, adjoining and downstream 
properties in the event of pipe blockage or 
storm events that generate greater runoff than 
the capacity of the piped drainage system

•  Include sediment and silt traps and trash 

screens strategically located in catch drains 
and inlet pits to capture pollutants

•  This can be achieved by:

 ○ The construction of surface flow routes to 
convey floodwaters away from private and 
public properties and, in flood prone land, 
the velocity and depth of flows are controlled 
to an acceptable level.

 ○ The provision of surface flow routes and 
piped drainage systems to direct/control 
frequent runoff, so that convenience and 
safety for pedestrians and vehicle traffic can 
be provided.

 ○ The provision of both piped drainage and 
surface flowpaths for new developments, 
re-developments and new subdivisions.

 ○ The installation of water quality control 
devices such as gross pollutant traps, 
stilling basins, baskets and the like to collect 
pollutants present in the stormwater runoff.

Minor and Major System Design

SW8  

"Dual Drainage" System - The method of 
stormwater drainage design used to size 
pipe networks and trunk drainage systems 
to convey stormwater runoff to the receiving 
water is known as the "dual drainage" system 
approach or minor/ major design concept, as 
described in the Australia Rainfall and Runoff 
Handbook. This method has been adopted by 
Council and a summary of the design criteria 
are set out below.

Minor System Design

SW9   Definition - The gutter and pipe network 

capable of conveying stormwater runoff during 
minor storm events is known as the "minor 
system". 

SW10   Widths of Flows - When designing the minor 
system, adequate inlet pits are to be installed 
such that the maximum gutter flow widths 
shall not exceed the lesser of 2.5 metres or 
one-quarter of the road carriageway width.  

Wider flow widths may be accepted on roads 
whose cross-sectional gradients are less than 
1.0%. This is subject to Council approval.  

For private stormwater drainage systems, the 
minor system must be capable of capturing 
or containing the runoff produced from 
the average rainfall recurrence interval as 
stipulated in SW21 Average Recurrence 
Interval for Public Drainage Systems.

SW11   Minimum Conduit Size - The minimum conduit 
sizes for the minor system design shall be as 
follows:

•  Public system - pipes, 375mm-dia

•  Public system - box culverts, 600mm wide x 

450mm high

•  Private system - pipes, 90mm-dia for roof 

runoff only

•  Private system - pipes, 100mm-dia for 
surface runoff within the property only

•  Roads - pipes, 375mm-dia

•  Roads - conduits, equivalency to 375mm-dia

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-303

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY SW12    Minimum Pipe Gradient - The minimum pipe 

gradient shall be as follows:

•  For pipes less than or equal to 225mm-dia: 

3%

•  For pipes greater than 225mm-dia: 1.0%

•  For concrete lined box culverts poured 

in-situ: 0.5%  

SW13    Anchor Blocks - Pipes which are to be laid at 
a slope greater than 20% will require anchor 
blocks at the top and bottom of the section 
and at intervals of not more than 3.0 metres in 
between. Bulkheads shall be provided on steep 
gradients where soil instability is likely. To retain 
backfill material, bulkheads shall be installed at 
intervals of not more than 5.0 metres. 

SW14   Pipe Material and Jointing Type - Type of pipe 
material and jointing to be used for the minor 
system design shall be as follows:

•  Public system - reinforced or fibre reinforced 

concrete*, rubber ring jointed

•  Private system - up to 300mm-dia uPVC, 

solvent welded joints; 300mm-dia and larger 
reinforced or fibre reinforced concrete*, 
rubber ring jointed

SW15    Alternative Material - Subject to Council 

approval, other types of material such as 
plastic pipes may be used for larger conduits, 
if it can be demonstrated that the substitute 
material has the same, if not better, structural 
and durability qualities when compared to 
reinforced concrete.

SW17    Less than Minimum Cover - If it is not practical 
to provide for the minimum cover requirements 
specified above, then at least 50mm thick 
granular overlay shall be provided over the 
obvert of the conduit with a 150mm thick 
reinforced concrete slab constructed over it or 
conduit is to be mass concrete surrounded. 

SW18   Pipe Class - The appropriate class of pipe to 
be used shall depend on the minimum cover 
provided and the loading onto the pipe in 
accordance with AS3725 - 1989, loads on 
buried concrete pipes.

SW19   Design Velocity of Flows - Design velocity of 

flows shall be as follows:

•  Conduits -  0.6 m/s minimum, 6.0m/s 

maximum

•  Surface flow - 2.0m/s maximum

Where these values are exceeded, appropriate 
erosion control and scour protection measures 
are to be provided at the outlet.

SW20    Maximum Depth of Flows - Maximum permitted 

depth of surface flow shall be:

•   Road carriageway, driveways, footpaths and 

carparks - 150mm

•   Landscaped areas - 300mm

SW21    Average Recurrence Interval for Public 

Systems - The average recurrence interval 
to be adopted for the design of the public 
drainage system is tabulated below: 

SW16   Depth of Cover - Depth of cover to the conduit 

obvert shall be as follows:

Location

Local Roads

•  Public system not subject to vehicle loads - 

Collector roads

450mm 

•  Pubic system subject to vehicle loads - 

600mm 

•  Private system not subject to vehicle loads 

- 300mm

•  Private system subject to vehicle loads - 

600mm

Sub-arterial roads

Arterial roads

State roads

Access to emergency 
facilities

At a depression (low 
point) in road

Public system passing 
through private property

ARI (years)

10

10

10

20

50

100

100

100

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-304

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY SW22   Average Recurrence Interval for Private 

Major System Design

Systems - The average recurrence interval to 
be adopted for private drainage systems (minor 
system design) is tabulated below:  

Location

ARI* (years)

Residential - low density

Residential - medium to high density

Commercial

Industrial

10

20

50

50

Hospitals and Emergency Facilities

100

* Important Note: The underground drainage system 
(includes pipes, conduits and pits) is to be designed for 
the 1 in 100-year ARI where major system flows (e.g. 
along a drainage easement) are likely to surcharge 
across private property or cause localised flooding. A 
surcharge path must also be provided to safely convey 
surface stormwater across private property within 
easements. The minimum design ARI for surcharge 
paths shall be the 1 in 100-years.

SW23    Definition - The "major system" comprises the 

drainage route, which conveys the runoff for 
the major storm events. This may be a series 
of trunk drainage systems and overland surface 
routes including open channels, creeks, and 
river systems. 

SW24   Provision of Overland Flow Routes - Overland 
flow routes are to be provided at the following 
locations:

•  Within the road carriageway excluding 

footpaths and the footway reserve. Flows 
across footpaths will only be permitted 
where this will not cause flooding to property 
or create danger to pedestrians and is 
subject to Council approval

•  Within drainage easements. Where it is not 
practical to provide an overland flow route 
over the easement, the piped drainage 
system shall be sized to accept the runoff for 
the major storm event i.e. the 100-year ARI

•  Within a known and designated floodway

•  Within creeks and river systems.

SW25   Minimum Freeboard Requirement for Flood 

Prone Land - Freeboard can vary according to 
parameters such as the size of the upstream 
catchment, the local terrain, the difference 
between the 1% AEP (Annual Exceedance 
Probability) level and the PMF (Probable 
Maximum Flood) level and the proposed use.  

In some cases the determination of an 
appropriate freeboard will be best done on 
the merits of the individual case through the 
Development Application process. However 
the minimum freeboard requirement unless 
overridden by a Flood Study, Draft Flood 
Study, Floodplain Risk Management Study, 
Floodplain Risk Management Plan or the DCP 
(Development Control Plan) shall be as follows:

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-305

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Freeboard requirements above 1% AEP water surface level

Finished Floor Level (B) Adopted Flood planning area

Maximum Water Level in (A)

Overland flow 
path identified 
by Council as 
"Minor"

Overland flow 
paths other than 
ones identified by 
Council as "Minor

Mainstream 
flooding

Residential – Habitable 
rooms

Residential – Non- 
habitable rooms

Commercial or 
Industrial – All internal 
areas

Carport open on 3 or 4 
sides (At Ground Level)

As per the adopted Plan

300mm

500mm

500mm

As per the adopted Plan

300mm

300mm

500mm

As per the adopted Plan

300mm

500mm

500mm

As per the adopted Plan

150mm*

150mm

300mm

Entrance to Basement

As per the adopted Plan

300mm*

Critical Infrastructure

As per the adopted Plan

300mm

Difference 
between the 
100-yr ARI Level 
and the PMF 
Level

Difference 
between the 
100-yr ARI Level 
and the PMF 
Level

Difference 
between the 
100-yr ARI Level 
and the PMF Level

Difference 
between the 
100-yr ARI Level 
and the PMF Level

* Note: At Council’s discretion, may be reduced

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-306

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY SW26    Design Velocities and Depths of Flow - Design 
velocities and depths of surface flows shall be 
in accordance with Figures G1 and G2 of the 
New South Wales Government Floodplain 
Management Manual: The management of 
flood liable land, with hazard category classed 
as "low hazard".  

SW27   Average Recurrence Interval - The average 

recurrence interval to be adopted for the major 
system design is tabulated below:

Location

Private

Public

Catchment Area

ARI (years)

100

100

SW28    Definition - The catchment area is defined by 
the limits from where surface runoff will make 
its way, either by man-made or natural paths, to 
the point of exit.

Catchment Runoff

SW29   Catchment Runoff - Catchment runoff shall 
be determined using a suitable hydrological 
method depending on the level of accuracy 
required and the extent and shape of the 
catchment. Limitations of each method are 
given in the Australian Rainfall & Runoff 
Handbook.

SW30   Determination of Catchment Runoff - 

Catchment runoff is to be calculated using the 
following methods:

Method

Application

Rational Method

Hydrological Method

For catchments areas       
< 1200 sqm

For catchment areas         
> 1200 sqm

SW31   Rational Method Approach - The Rational 

Method for the estimation of peak flows will be 
acceptable for small catchments. This method 
is best suited to catchments with uniform slope 
and roughness characteristics and where the 
level of accuracy is not critical. This would 
include site discharge calculations and roof 
runoff.

SW32   Hydrological Computer Model Approach - 

The use of hydrological computer models is 
best suited to medium to large catchments 
and where a reasonable level of accuracy is 
required. 

Acceptable computer models include ILSAX, 
DRAINS, RAFTS and RORB. 

SW33   Impervious Areas - The impervious area 

percentages to be adopted for determining 
runoff are tabulated as follows:

Public System (trunk drainage)

Location

Residential Areas

Commercial

Road Reserves

Percentage

80

100

80

Private System (inter-allotment drainage)

Location

Road Reserves

Residential Single

Residential Medium Density

Residential High Density

Industrial

Commercial

Percentage

80

80

90

100

100

100

SW34    Roughness coefficients - Roughness 

Coefficients are to be used to calculate free 
surface flow. 

For the purpose of determining stormwater 
runoff into open channels and free surface 
hydraulics, Manning's roughness coefficients 
shall be used. Typical values are given in 
appendix and the Australian Rainfall and Runoff 
Handbook. 

For sections with composite roughness values, 
Horton's Equation may be used to convert to 
an equivalent roughness value for simplicity in 
calculations.   

Horton's Equation is given as: 
n =    {Σ (Pi.ni3/2) / Σ Pi }2/3 

Where ni = is the Manning's Roughness 
Coefficient for section i and 
Pi = is the wetted perimeter or length of the 
section with a roughness value ni

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-307

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Hydraulic Grade Line

SW35    Analysis - Hydraulic grade line calculations 
are to be performed in accordance with the 
Australian Rainfall and Runoff, and shall 
be undertaken by a qualified person with 
experience in hydrology and hydraulic design. 

SW36   Full Hydraulic Calculations - Full hydraulic 

calculations must be submitted for all public 
and major piped systems (375mm-dia and 
larger), drainage lines through easements and 
flood assessment to ascertain flood levels or 
where Council deems it necessary to determine 
the feasibility of the proposal. 

SW37   Reduction of Losses - Drainage lines shall be 

designed with minimal bends to avoid bend 
losses. Where this is unavoidable, junction pits 
shall be provided at the location of bends or 
changes in direction. 

SW38   Avoidance of Chokes - Pipes will not be 

permitted to be laid such that a larger pipe 
joins into a smaller pipe downstream, to avoid 
potential chokes in the system. However, 
this may be unavoidable when the new line 
is connected into an existing system. In this 
circumstance, the starting hydraulic control 
shall be adopted at the ground level at the 
point of connection.  

SW39   Water Surface Profiles – For determination 

of flood profiles and surface drainage 
systems (e.g. channels, open drains and the 
like), hydraulic calculations are to include 
determination of water surface profiles and 
backwater effect using suitable computer 
models such as DRAINS and HEC-RAS. 

SW40   Frictional Losses - Frictional losses in closed 

conduits of circular shaped cross-section 
(e.g. pipes), shall be determined using the 
Darcy-Weisbach Formula. This Formula may 
be applied to rectangular sections (e.g. box 
culverts), by converting the product of the area 
and hydraulic radius to the power of two-thirds 
(A.R2/3) to an equivalent circular section.    

SW41   Colebrook-White Roughness Values - 

Colebrook-White roughness parameters used 
for pipes are as tabulated:

Conduit Material

K value (mm)

uPVC pipe

Reinforced concrete pipe

0.03

0.06

Fibre reinforced concrete pipe

0.06

SW42   Pit Energy Losses - Pit energy losses and 

pressure changes at junctions, bends, 
transition structures, slope junctions, inlet 
pits, junction pits, drops and outlets must be 
considered in the hydraulic assessment. 

Pressure head coefficients for determining 
these "head losses" are to be obtained from 
the following sources:

•   Missouri Charts

•   Hare Equations

•   U S Corp of Engineers mitre bend charts

•   AR&R 1987 Handbook or later editions 

SW43   Downstream Hydraulic Controls - The following 
downstream water surface level or controls are 
to be adopted:

•  Where the hydraulic grade line level 
downstream of the proposed works, 
including the upstream pit losses at the 
starting pit is known (corresponding to 
the design storm recurrence interval as 
adopted), this level is to be used

•  Where the downstream starting point is at a 
pit and its hydraulic grade line is unknown, 
a level of 150mm below the surface level of 
this pit is to be adopted

•  Where the outlet is to an open channel, 

the water surface level is to be determined 
using Manning's Equation or an appropriate 
hydraulic model. The water level shall be 
adopted as the normal depth calculated 
using an appropriate method, or the top of 
the outlet pipe, whichever is the greater

•  Where the outlet is to an open channel, and 
downstream flood levels are known, the 
water surface level to be adopted shall be 
the 1% AEP flood level

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-308

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY •  Where the outlet is affected by tidal or wave 
action, the resulting tide water level shall be 
adopted

•  Where the outlet is to an existing pipe or 
conduit, the hydraulic grade line of the 
conduit shall be determined downstream to 
a pit where its water level is known (e.g. at a 
grate in the gutter where the maximum free 
surface ponding is at the top of kerb)

•  Where the outlet is at the invert of the k erb, 
the water surface level shall be adopted at 
the top of the kerb

Stormwater Drainage Pits

SW44   Pit Types - Standard Council kerb inlet pits with 

kerb lintel openings, junction pits and letter 
box type pits are to be installed for all public 
drainage systems. Pits for private drainage 
systems are to be inlet and junction pit types 
with grates or solid covers. 

SW45   Material - Public drainage pits are to be precast 

concrete, fibre reinforced concrete or insitu 
poured concrete.  

Private drainage pits may be constructed 
from pre-fabricated high density poly-plastic 
of appropriate load class as specified by the 
Manufacturer.  

The bases of pits shall be concrete benched to 
minimise hydraulic losses. 

Pits constructed of brick or blockwork will not 
be acceptable unless they are designed and 
constructed to withstand structural loading and 
fully waterproofed to prevent leakage.

SW46   Minimum Dimensions - Minimum internal 

dimensions of pits are tabulated below:

Pit Type

Dimension (mm)

Kerb Inlet with Lintel 
and Grate

Inlet Pits in 
Landscaped Areas

Junction Pits

Private Grated Inlet Pit 
< 1.2m deep

600 x 900

600 x 600

600 x 600

300 x 300

Private Grated Inlet Pit 
> 1.2m deep

450 x 450

Private Junction Pit     
< 1.2m deep

300 x 300

Private Junction Pit    
> 1.2m deep

450 x 450

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-309

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY SW47   Private Stormwater Drainage Pit Location - 
Private pits are to be located wholly within 
property boundaries. If any private pit is 
required to be located external to the property, 
then it shall be constructed to a public standard 
and becomes the property of Council. 

SW48   Grates - Grates over public pits are to be 

galvanised and hinged to frame. Private pits 
may have grates made from pre-fabricated high 
density poly-plastic of appropriate load class as 
specified by Manufacturer.

SW49   Load Class of Grates and Covers - Stormwater 
drainage pit grates and covers shall be 
provided to support the required load 
classification at the following locations:

Location

Load Class Required*

Driveways including 
access handles

Heavy Duty

Car parks

Heavy Duty

Road Carriageways

Heavy Duty

Footways

Reserve, landscaped 
areas with pedestrian 
traffic only

Reserve, landscaped 
areas with no traffic

Heavy Duty

Medium Duty

Light Duty

* Important Note: Light duty is equivalent to 1 tonne 
wheel load, medium duty is equivalent to 3.5 tonne 
wheel load and heavy duty is equivalent to 9 tonne 
wheel load.

All public grates shall be hinged to frame and lockable. 

Private grates are to be hinged to frame and lockable 
where it is designed to surcharge or where upwelling is 
likely.

SW50   Liftable Lids - All lids over pits must be liftable 

for routine inspections and maintenance.

SW51   Junction Pits - Junction pits are not to be 
designed as pressurised systems.

SW52   Step Irons - Where pits are 1.2 metres or 

greater in depth, step irons in accordance with 
AS1657 are to be provided to one side of the 
pit wall to allow access for inspections and 
cleaning. 

SW53   Letterbox Type Pits - Letterbox type pits 

may be used for collection of surface water. 
However, they are not permitted at or near kerb 
locations where there is likely pedestrian and/
or vehicular traffic. In these locations, pits with 
butterfly type grates flush with the surrounding 
ground level are preferred.  

SW54   Lintels - Lintels over kerb openings shall be 

provided at the kerb side with the opening 
length dependent on its design capture rate, 
but not less than 1.2 metres and not greater 
than 4.0 metres.

SW55   Pit Locations - Stormwater drainage inlet pits 
shall be positioned at the following locations:

•  Spaced such that the gutter flow width is 

limited to 2.5 metres maximum width for the 
minor system design.

•  Located at the upstream side of allotments 
to minimise runoff flowing across the road.

•  Located at sag points and at road 

depressions.

•  Located where access for inspections and 

maintenance is readily available.

•  Provided at changes in direction, grade, 
conduit level, size, or class of conduit.

•  Provided at junctions.

•  Spaced at a distance of no greater than 50 

metres apart.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-310

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY SW56   Inlet Capacities - The inlet capacity of pits 
shall be determined in accordance with the 
Australian Rainfall and Runoff Handbook.  

Inlet capacities are to be restricted with the 
following blockage factors:

Location

Inlet Type

Capacity Allowed (%)

side entry only

grate only

80

80

combination

100 side 0 grate

sag

sag

sag

sag

letterbox

on-grade

side entry only

on-grade

grate only

on-grade

combination

Open Channels

50

80

50

80

SW57   Preferences - Piped drainage systems are 

preferred over open channel systems.  

Open channels will only be permitted if they 
form part of the major drainage system and 
where permitted, shall be designed to have 
smooth transitions, with adequate access 
provisions available for inspections, general 
maintenance and adequate safety measures 
installed to protect persons and vehicles.  

These include perimeter fences, bollards, and 
grills over outlet pipes. Step irons shall be 
installed and flow velocities and depths are to 
be reduced at nominated access points.

SW58   Design - Open channels shall be designed in 

accordance with the Australian Rainfall and 
Runoff Handbook and the NSW Government 
Floodplain Management Manual and must be 
able to contain the major system runoff. 
Open channels shall be designed to avoid 
hydraulic jumps or generate supercritical flow 
conditions. Side slopes must not exceed 1 in 3, 
unless fully fenced off. 

Wherever possible, low flows shall be 
contained within a piped system or contained 
within a concrete lined channel at the invert of 
the channel. 

SW59   Manning’s Roughness Coefficient – Manning’s 
roughness coefficients for open channel 
sections applicable to specific channel types 
can be obtained from the Australian Rainfall 
and Runoff Handbook. 

Typical values are given below:

Surface Finish

n value

Concrete pipes or box sections

Concrete trowel finish

Concrete formed without finishing

Sprayed concrete, granite

Bitumen, smooth finish

Bricks or pavers

Pitchers or dressed stone in mortar

Rubble masonry or random stone in 
mortar

Rock lining or rip-rap

Earth, clean

Corrugated metal

Earth, weed and gravel

Rock cut

Short grass

Long grass

Medium to dense brush

0.012

0.015

0.016

0.018

0.016

0.016

0.016

0.028

0.028

0.027

0.027

0.022

0.028

0.033

0.035

0.150

Building Adjacent to Stormwater          
Drainage Systems

SW60   Location of Structural Supports - Where 

structural supports such as foundations, piers, 
and footings are to be located adjacent to the 
drainage system, they are to be located outside 
of the drainage easement and must not load 
bear onto the underlying drainage structure. In 
general, where a drainage structure is parallel 
or adjacent to foundations, piers or footings, 
the base of the footing shall be located outside 
the influence zone created by an angle of 45 
degrees to the horizontal extended from the 
invert of the drainage structure. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-311

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Stormwater Connections

Easements

SW61   Under Buildings - shall be carried out in               

accordance with AS/NZS3500.3, Section 3.

SW62   Above ground pipe work - Shall be carried out 
in accordance with AS/NZS3500.3, Section 6 
and this Document. 

Non-return valves are not permitted to be 
installed in Council maintained (public) 
systems. 

SW63    Connection Detail - If the ratio of the private 
pipe size to the Council (public) pipe size is 
more than one third, a standard stormwater 
gully pit at the connection point, will be 
required. 

Avoid Conflict with Utility Services

SW64    General - Care shall be taken to ensure that 

the proposed stormwater drainage system 
will not conflict with utility services. In this 
regard, all utility services shall be located prior 
to final drainage system design. Stormwater 
drainage conduits crossing over or under sewer 
lines must be laid in accordance with Sydney 
Water requirements. This may require support 
trenching and concrete encasement of sections 
that traverse the utility. 

SW65   Location of Drainage Lines in Road Reserve - 
Public drainage lines laid in the road reserve, 
shall be located under the kerb line or within 
the road carriageway, to avoid conflict with the 
utility services in the footway.  

For private drainage lines which must cross 
the footway reserve, they shall be laid across 
the footway perpendicular to or at a maximum 
angle of 45 degrees to the kerb face to 
minimise conflict with services. 

SW66    Requirement - Where the site grades to 
the rear, the creation of formal drainage 
easements will be necessary. Evidence in 
the form of a Legal Agreement between 
affected parties or copies of titles showing 
the creation or intention to create easements 
must be provided to Council in support of the 
Development Application. This is essential for 
DA approval. Where easements cannot be 
negotiated, signed documents by all affected 
parties or acceptable documentation provided 
as evidence shall be submitted to support the 
case for alternative solutions. 

Easements shall be required over constructed 
public drainage systems within private 
properties, to ensure that Council has full 
rights of access to such drainage systems for 
the purpose of inspection, maintenance or 
upgrade.  

Stormwater drainage easements shall be 
required over all private inter-allotment 
drainage lines.  

Stormwater drainage easements will not 
be required within or over natural drainage 
systems such as creeks and watercourses.  

Council does not favour or encourage 
the piping, construction within or over, or 
interference with natural drainage systems. Any 
proposal to carry out such works will be subject 
to an assessment pursuant to other relevant 
Council policies and joint approval from other 
relevant authorities.  

SW67   Easement Acquisition - Council will take the 
opportunity to acquire drainage easements 
over existing constructed public drainage 
systems within private property whenever a 
development occurs by Condition of Consent.  

When a developer, property owner or Council 
proposes to relocate or reconstruct a public 
drainage system within the site, a drainage 
easement in Council's favour must be created 
to suit the relocated or reconstructed drainage 
system at the cost to the developer. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-312

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY A sub-division will not be approved where a 
formal drainage easement cannot be provided 
to drain a newly created allotment in the same 
direction as the natural fall of the land.

SW68    Prohibition of Building over Easements - Any 
construction of buildings or other permanent 
structures over a public drainage easement is 
not permitted. 

Easements allow Council reasonable access 
for the purpose of construction, maintenance 
and upgrade of the stormwater drainage 
system. 

Encroachments impede or re-direct overland 
flows away from the easement, and may load 
bear onto the underlying drainage structure.      

Council may require the relocation of an 
existing pipe to avoid encroachment. 
Where encroachment is necessary to achieve 
reasonable development, then the conduit and 
easement may be relocated subject to Council 
approval.

SW69   Load bearing Structures adjacent to Drainage 

Easements - Any structural support such as 
footings and piers will only be permitted to be 
located adjacent to an easement if they do 
not load bear onto the underlying drainage 
structure, and that the built structure will not be 
undermined by any future maintenance work 
necessary within the easement.   

SW70   Planting of Significant Trees - The planting of 

trees or large shrubs, particularly those with 
extensive root systems will not be permitted in 
or within proximity of drainage easements. 

SW71   Construction over Public Drainage Easements 

- Construction over a public drainage easement 
is generally prohibited. Public drainage 
easements must be free of all encroachments 
with a minimum vertical clearance from 
the surface/ground level over the drainage 
structure to a height of 5.0 metres above. 

Paved surfaces over the public drainage 
easement are permitted provided that 
construction joints along each longitudinal 
edge of the easement are installed to facilitate 
access to the drainage structure. 

SW72   Public Easement Widths - Public easement 
width shall be a minimum width equal to the 
external width of the conduit plus 1.0 metre, 
rounded to the nearest 0.1 metre.

Inter-allotment Drainage

SW73    Application - Inter-allotment drainage shall be 

provided for property/s that does not drain directly 
to its street frontage by gravity means, or directly 
by gravity means to an existing stormwater 
drainage system (public or legally private) or by 
gravity means to a natural watercourse.  

Easements shall be created over all inter-allotment 
drainage systems on private property/s in favour of 
all upstream properties to be benefited by it.

SW74   Inter-allotment Easement Widths – Inter-allotment 

easement widths (private) shall be a minimum 
width equal to the external width of the conduit 
plus 300mm. However these widths may be varied 
where there are site constraints.

SW75   Sizing of Inter-allotment Drainage Systems - Inter-
allotment conduits shall be sized on the total site 
area of the benefitted allotments with a minimum 
impervious area as given in Section Impervious 
Areas.  

SW76   Material - Inter-allotment drainage pits and pipes 

shall be of reinforced concrete, fibre reinforced 
concrete or uPVC material. All pipes/conduits are 
to be rubber ring jointed or solvent welded as 
specified by the manufacturer and in accordance 
with AS4058, AS4139 and AS1254 respectively.  

Subsurface Water

SW77   Definition - Subsurface or groundwater is water 
held in the soil or in pores and crevices in rock 
and is generally present behind basement walls or 
subfloor areas which are below the natural ground 
level. 

SW78   Minimum Information to be Provided – Where 
a proposal is for the installation of a basement 
or below ground area or the development will 
require cutting into the existing ground level, 
a Geotechnical Report must be submitted to 
Council for assessment. This Report shall detail 
an investigation of subsurface conditions including 
groundwater levels, the likelihood or indication of 
a high water table or seepage water, the soil type 
encountered and the soil infiltration rate.   

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-313

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY SW79   Disposal – Generally subsurface water is 
collected by sub-soil drainage pipes and 
collected in a holding tank which is either 
pumped or gravity fed into an approved 
disposal point. Subsurface water is not 
permitted to be discharged to the kerb either 
directly or indirectly except in a controlled 
manner specifically approved by Council under 
S138.1(d) of the Roads Act 1993 (refer SW80 
below). It must be drained directly into an 
underground public drainage system or other 
disposal point approved by Council. 

SW80   Direct Connection into an Underground Public 

Drainage System – This is the preferred 
method of subsurface water disposal. The 
subsurface water is conveyed across the public 
footway by gravity means and drained into the 
nearest public underground piped drainage 
system. 

A junction pit is to be installed within the 
property boundary with a non-return valve 
on the upstream pipe to prevent water back 
flowing into the site.   

If there is no existing underground drainage 
system in the vicinity of the source, a new 
underground (piped) drainage system shall 
be installed and connected into the nearest 
downstream underground drainage system. 
The new drainage system other than the line 
that crosses the footway shall be designed to 
a public drainage system standard and shall 
become part of the public drainage system.

SW81   On-site Disposal of Subsurface Water – 

Subsurface water may be disposed of via 
on-site absorption in combination with a level 
spreader. However, this is subject to the same 
constraints as for the disposal of stormwater 
runoff from an On-site Stormwater Absorption 
(OSA) system design.  

OSA may not be suitable where a high water 
table exists or for low lying properties or sites 
which have limited space for disposal.  

SW82   Waterproofing Subfloor Areas – Basement 

walls and subfloor areas may be waterproofed 
to minimise the collection of seepage water, in 
particular where Type 2 acid sulphate soils or 
high water tables are encountered.   

Water proofing has its limitations and subsoil 
water ingress may still exist as there would be 
high pore pressures exerted on the walls and 
floors of the “tanked” structure. Pore pressures 
and floatation forces mean these types of 
structures require specialized design and 
certification by a Qualified Structural Engineer.  

SW83   High Water Table – In the case of a high 

water table, the draw down effect of the water 
table when subsurface water is collected and 
disposed would necessitate a statement from a 
Geotechnical Engineer that nearby structures 
will not be affected by the development. It may 
be necessary to obtain licence for the drawing 
down of groundwater from the Department of 
Primary Industries.

SW84   Controlled Disposal – If all alternative 

acceptable solutions have been exhausted, 
Council will consider separate specific 
approval of controlled release to the kerb 
under Section 138.1(d) of the Roads Act. In 
this circumstance subsurface water may be 
disposed to the kerb and gutter in a controlled 
rate, period and duration. This will necessitate 
the following:

•  Provision of a sump or holding tank which 
can store collected seepage water for a 
minimum duration of 24 hours. 

•  The soil infiltration rate shall be determined 

by geotechnical investigation but shall not be 
less than 0.001 L/s per m2. 

•  The holding tank shall be sized for the 

collected seepage water based on the area 
of exposed wall to the soil. For example, 
for typical double garage and an infiltration 
rate of 0.001 L/s per sqm and a wall height 
of 2.4m with subsoil drainage install around 
its perimeter say 25m long, the volume of 
the holding tank required will be 2.4 x 25 x 
(0.001/1000) x 24 x 60 x 60 = 5.2 cum or 
5200 L required.  Note this is in addition to 
the volume required for collected stormwater 
from weather exposed areas.

•  Dual pumps to be installed and shall 

be designed to operate to discharge a 
maximum of 5L/s and restricted to pumping 
between 11pm and 3am only. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-314

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY SPE6   Silt and Sediment Control - Silt and Sediment 

Control devices are required as part of a 
development to remove pollutants during the 
"first flush".  

These units shall be installed on line or 
within the site and may include proprietary 
items such as “Humeceptor” devices or CDS 
units, silt and grease arrestors approved by 
Council. Installation of these devices shall 
be in accordance with the manufacturer's 
specification.  

Other sediment control devices such as stilling 
basins and constructed wetlands shall be 
required for large-scale developments and 
include land and community title subdivisions. 

Design of these devices shall be in accordance 
with the Managing Urban Stormwater, Soils 
and Construction Manual, NSW Department 
of Housing, August 1998 or later editions.

Integrated Developments

SPE7   Part 3A Permit for Development near Water 

Bodies - Any development within 40m of a 
water body such as a stream, creek, lagoon, 
or river may require a Part 3a Permit under 
the Department of Lands Guidelines and The 
Rivers and Foreshores Improvement Act 1948. 

Stormwater Pollution and Erosion 
Control

Soil and Water Management

SPE1   Soil and Water Management Plan - A soil and 

water management plan shall be submitted 
and must be approved by Council prior to 
the commencement of any construction or 
demolition activity. 

SPE2   Guidelines - Guidelines shall be in accordance 
with the Managing Urban Stormwater, Soils 
and Construction Manual, NSW Department 
of Housing or later editions.

SPE3   Sediment Control Devices - All sediment 

SPE4  

SPE5  

control devices are to be installed prior to any 
commencement of clearing and earthworks on 
the site. Ongoing maintenance of these devices 
during construction will be required. 

A maintenance schedule is to be provided with 
the Soil and Water Management Plan for large 
scale developments and works within public 
land.

 Soil Erosion Control - Soil erosion control 
is required to protect adjoining properties, 
bushland, roadways and receiving waters from 
degradation due to silt laden stormwater runoff 
as a result of development and/or concentration 
of runoff.  Soil erosion control shall be provided 
as follows:

•  Appropriate scour protection installed at the 

outlet to stormwater conduits, and

•  Installation of pollution control devices at 

the source, on-line, off-line or at the end of 
the line to control sediment laden overland 
stormwater flows.

 Scour Protection Devices - Scour protection 
devices shall include embankment stabilisation 
e.g. rock walls, concrete aprons, gabions, turf, 
jute mesh, energy dissipating units, or other 
more appropriate erosion control devices 
approved by Council.  

Please note that some types of scour 
protection devices may be inappropriate along 
certain creek locations. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-315

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Water Sensitive Urban Design

Objectives

WSUD1  Principles of Water Sensitive Urban Design 

- All developments are encouraged to 
implement the principles of Water Sensitive 
Urban Design (WSUD) in order to minimise 
the impact of the development on the water 
cycle and achieve more sustainable forms of 
urban development.

WSUD2  Aim of WSUD - The aim of WSUD is to 

integrate stormwater management systems 
into the landscape component of the site in a 
manner that provides benefits that incorporate 
stormwater detention, retention, re-use and 
water efficiency whilst addressing issues such 
as nuisance flooding, protection from pollution 
of the receiving waterways and groundwater 
and improving visual amenity.  

Design Principles

WSUD3  How Design Principles are achieved - In 
addition to those control systems already 
identified in Stormwater Management such 
as On-site Stormwater Detention, infiltration or 
absorption systems and rainwater harvesting, 
the aim of WSUD is to combine these options 
together with the proposed landscaping to 
achieve integration rather than relying on ‘end 
of pipe’ devices prior to discharge. These are 
achieved by:

•  Operating practices and technologies which 
would prevent contamination of stormwater

•  Locate the development such as to minimise 
disturbance of the natural drainage system

•  Minimise impervious surfaces and 

encouraging soft landscaping to promote 
infiltration and reduce stormwater runoff

•  WSUD elements are to be located and 

configured such that impervious areas to be 
treated can be maximised

Permeable Pavers

Infiltration Trenches

Rainwater Harvesting

WSUD4  Water Sensitive Urban Design Measures - 
Where WSUD principles are to be applied, 
the following table lists measures, which can 
be used to achieve water quality and water 
quantity targets. Note their uses may be 
complementary to other ‘hard’ engineering 
solutions.

WSUD Measure

Comments

Constructed Wetlands

Sedimentation Basins

Vegetated Filter Strips

Sand Filters

Bio-retention Systems

To be considered for 
medium to large scale 
subdivisions

To be considered for 
medium to large scale 
subdivisions

Can be incorporated into 
new developments

Used in combination with 
absorption system design

Used in combination 
with absorption system 
design or for water quality 
improvement targets in lieu 
of straight discharge into 
the waterways.

Alternative Gross Pollutant 
Traps may be considered 
(mechanical system) for 
screening silts, sands and 
debris, may be considered

As a complementary 
system to absorption 
trench to minimise 
on-ground impervious 
areas

Absorption trench design 
as described above

Re-use is encouraged. 
Offset provision allowable 
from OSD

WSUD5  Water Sensitive Urban Design Modelling – 

Modelling of WSUD using a suitable program 
such as MUSIC (Model for Urban Stormwater 
Improvement Conceptualisation) will be 
acceptable to Council.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-316

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Document Submission

Development Application

General

DS4   Submission of Conceptual Drawings - 

DS1   Minimum Requirements - At the lodgement of a 
Development Application, minimum submission 
of documentation is required to support the 
proposed development. Usually conceptual 
plans would suffice unless the proposed 
development would impact on public land 
or Council considers that there may be site 
constraints which may result in non-compliance 
to standards. 

DS2   Stormwater Drainage Conceptual Plan - a 
stormwater drainage concept plan (SDCP) 
must be submitted with the Development 
Application. 

DS3   Detailed Design Drawings - Detailed design 

drawings and supporting calculations are 
generally required at Construction Certificate 
submission and not required at DA stage 
except in the following circumstances:

•  The proposed works include activities 

on Council property. A separate approval 
under Section 138 of the Roads Act may be 
necessary. It is important the Applicant contact 
Council in this case to ensure that approval can 
be granted.  

Important Note: Works in the road reserve 
can only be approved under Section 138 of 
the Roads Act. Approval under Part 4 of the 
Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 
does not grant automatic approval for works on 
public land.

•  The proposed development is a new dwelling, 
residential flat building, mixed development, 
commercial or industrial development and the 
land falls to the rear and does not benefit from 
a formal drainage easement. 

•  A Stormwater Assessment Report is required 
due to likely flood affectation to ascertain 
design floor levels or if there is a proposed 
subfloor level which may be likely to be 
affected by stormwater inundation or disposal 
of seepage water is difficult. 

Where detailed design drawings are required, 
they must be submitted and approved by 
Council prior to the issue of the Construction 
Certificate.

Engineering conceptual drawings shall be 
submitted at the lodgement of the Development 
Application containing the following information:

•  A3 or A1 size drawing sheets at an appropriate 

scale of 1:100, 1:200 or 1:500.

•  Showing the layout of the proposed drainage 

system and structures including the location of 
all downpipes, kerbs, channels, open drains, 
pits, pipes, retaining walls etc. 

•  Showing the nominal size of all stormwater 

conduits, grades, and pit dimensions.

•  Showing conduit gradients.

•  Showing the finished surface levels of any 

open channels, drains, or swales.

•  Showing the location of all buildings, driveways, 

retaining walls, and other impervious and 
pervious surfaces.

•  Showing the finished surface levels of paved 
areas, unpaved areas, building floors and 
garages

•  Showing typical cross sectional details of any 

open channels, drains, or swales

•  Where drainage easements are required, 
the location of the proposed easement for 
stormwater drainage and legal agreements 
attached

•  Showing details of the proposed On-site 
Stormwater Detention (OSD) or On-site 
Absorption (OSA) System, or dispersion 
trenches, if required

•  Include basic supporting computation or 

information

•  Showing the location of any utility services, 

structures, trees, etc., which might affect the 
proposed development 

Important Note: It is the responsibility of 
the applicant to submit sufficient details of all 
relevant services, which may conflict with the 
proposed design. The exact locations of any 
crossings or connections are to be shown.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-317

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Construction Certificate

DS5   Submission of Construction Certificate 

Drawings - Detailed construction drawings 
are to be submitted as required, either to 
Council or to a nominated Principal Certifying 
Authority (PCA) and must include the following 
information:

•  Drawings to be issued on standard A3 or A1 

size drawing sheets at an appropriate scale of 
1:100, 1:200 or 1:500.

•  Drawings must clearly show the layout of the 
proposed engineering works, including the 
location of all retaining walls, downpipes, pits 
and pipes and labelled with their pipe sizes, 
gradients, existing and finished surface and 
invert levels, dimensions of all OSD, OSA and 
pump-out systems, including the proposed 
storage volumes, surcharge/overflow paths, 
permissible site discharge, and other relevant 
information sufficient for construction. 

•  All supporting calculations are to be supplied 
on computer disc (where applicable) with 
relevant hydrologic and hydraulic information.

DS6   Minimum Information - the minimum 

information to be provided on the drawings are 
as follows:

•  Total site area in m2.

•  Total impervious area (roof and paved) in m2.

•  Area draining into the proposed stormwater 

(OSD or OSA) facility. 

•  Dimensions (mm), volume (cum), and 

discharge rate from the OSD or OSA system.

•  Maximum water depth (mm) from centreline of 

outlet to top water level.

•  Maximum depth of ponding for above ground 

OSD systems.

•  Type and size of orifice (mm-dia), outlet pipe 

(mm-dia) and PSD (L/s).

•  Details of the OSD control device(s) used 

including size and shape, outlet pipe diameter 
and invert level.

•  For underground systems, at least one (1) 
detailed section through the OSD or OSA 
facility sufficient for construction.

•  For above ground systems, at least two (2) 
detailed sections through the OSD facility, 
which shall include the maximum water level, 
gradients and overflow weir, sufficient for 
construction.

•  Existing and proposed levels and details of 
adjoining structures and buildings shall be 
shown on the sections through the OSD or 
OSA facility.

•  Overland flow path and PSD from the site.

•  Plan showing the location of OSA or OSD 
facilities including dimensions, pervious 
(landscape) and paved (existing and proposed 
roof and paved) areas, and all existing and 
proposed surface levels.

•  For pump-out systems, the pump type and rate, 

and holding tank volume.

•  Location of any utility services, structures, 
trees, etc., which may affect the proposed 
drainage system.

•  Full details of all relevant services, which may 
conflict with the proposed design, including 
invert levels and size of the service are to be  
shown.

•  Structural details of retaining walls including 
sub-soil drainage, reinforcement details, 
dimensions and concrete strength. 

•  Where an inter-allotment drainage line is to be 
laid, a longitudinal section of the proposed pipe 
from the point of connection to the discharge 
point is to be provided. This must include pipe 
sizes, gradients, flowrates and a hydraulic 
grade line.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-318

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY DS7   Certification - For residential flat buildings, dual 

•  Certification of the constructed drainage 

occupancies, commercial, industrial, mixed 
developments, multi-residential developments, 
and similar type developments, the construction 
drawings must be certified by a qualified 
practising Civil Engineer, with membership with 
the Institution of Engineers, Australia, practising 
in the relevant competency category (civil, 
geotechnical, structural) and on the National 
Professional Engineers Register (NER). 

For single residential developments, residential 
extensions, and small scale developments such 
as car ports, garages, sheds, etc, certification 
can be provided by a draftsperson, surveyor, 
or plumber with appropriate and relevant 
experience. 

DS8   Drainage Easements - Where drainage 

easements are required, evidence in the form 
of a legal agreement between the affected 
parties or copies of titles showing the created 
easements shall be submitted with the 
drawings.

Occupation (Final) Certificate

DS9   Minimum Information - the minimum 

information to be provided to Council or a 
nominated Principal Certifying Authority (PCA) 
are as follows: 

•  Works-as-executed drawings: an engineering 

survey of the final works is to be submitted 
on one (1) set of the approved plans. This 
plan is to include finished levels, dimensions 
and volume of the built OSA, OSD facility, the 
location of all drainage pipes, sizes and levels, 
etc., and signed by a Registered Surveyor

•  Copies of titles showing the creation of 

Positive Covenants and Restriction on the use 
of land

system by a suitably qualified and experienced 
Chartered Professional Engineer, on the 
National Engineers Register (NER) with the 
Australian Institute of Engineers for residential 
flat buildings, dual occupancies, commercial, 
industrial, mixed developments, multi-
residential developments, and the like. For 
single residential developments, residential 
extensions, and small scale developments, 
a Compliance Certificate from a Surveyor 
or plumber with experience in stormwater 
design would be acceptable. The Compliance 
Certificate must certify that the works have 
been installed in accordance with the relevant 
Australian standards (AS3500) and Council’s 
relevant specifications and DCP.

•  Identification Plate: an identification plate of 
not less than 110mm wide x 80mm high, is to 
be fixed near or onto the control structure of 
the OSD system, this is to advise the registered 
proprietor of their responsibility to maintain the 
OSD facility and not to tamper with it in any 
manner without written consent. This plaque 
shall read 'This is an On-site Stormwater 
Detention System. It is an offence to reduce 
the volume of the system (tank or basin) or to 
remove the orifice that controls the outflow. 
The base of the outlet control pit and the debris 
screen must be cleared of debris and silt on a 
regular basis. This plate must not be removed.' 

Identification plates can be purchased from 
Council’s Customer Services Centre 

DS10   Where Onsite Detention system or a 

mechanical pump out system is proposed 
on site, the following documents must be 
submitted to Council or Principal Certifying 
Authority prior to occupation:

a)  A Certificate from a Chartered Professional 
Engineer with Institution of Engineers, 
Australia Corporate Membership and 
registered on the National Engineers Register 
(NER) under the appropriate professional 
Category certifying the intended function of 
constructed stormwater drainage system 
including Onsite Detention (OSD) system, 
Onsite absorption system, Mechanical Pump 
out system, Stormwater retention system 
(OSR) etc, and

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-319

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY b)  “Work - As - Executed” drawings of 

constructed stormwater drainage system 
prepared by a Registered Surveyor or 
equivalent.

•  Where Council is not the Principal Certifying 

Authority, two (2) copies of the above 
documents are to be provided to Council prior 
to the issue of any Occupation Certificate. 
These documents are to be retained on 
Council’s Construction Certificate files.

Section 138 Consent under the Roads Act

DS11   General - Development Approval does not give 

automatic approval for external works to the 
site, that is, in public domain areas. 

Important Note - Private Certifiers cannot 
issue Consent under the Roads Act. The 
Road Authority which can issue Consent under 
the Roads Act will generally be either Council 
or the RMS. In some cases where Council or 
RMS is the Road Authority, the consent of both 
Council and the RMS will be required due to 
traffic or maintenance impacts. 

Council is the Consent Authority for all works 
within the footway area, regardless of RMS 
approval for road pavement works or activities.  
This may be in the form of a Road Opening 
Permit (for minor works such as the laying 
of a private stormwater pipe across the 
footpath), Driveway Application (for driveway 
and footpath construction) or a Section 138 
Application for Major Works (such as laying 
a stormwater drainage line under the kerb or 
road pavement construction). All these activities 
require approval from Council under Section 
138 of the Roads Act 1993.

DS12   External works - Pursuant to Section 138 of 

the Roads Act 1993, written approval from the 
Appropriate Road Authority (Council or RMS), 
must be sought for proposed works external to 
the site. External works include the following:

•  Closure of a carriageway on a State Road

•  Closure of a carriageway on a Regional Road

•  Works which may impact the traffic flow on a 

State Road or Regional Road

•  Works within 100m of a Traffic Facility (e.g. 

Signalized Traffic Lights)

•  Closure of a lane for the purpose of standing a 

crane, concrete pump or waste bin

DS13   Types of External Works cover by a Section 
138 Approval - The types of works requiring 
Section 138 approval include but not limited to:

•   Road works in general

•  Stormwater drainage works 

•  Traffic devices or local area traffic management 

(LATM) schemes

•  Footpath construction

•  Water quality control devices on public land

•  Driveway construction

•  Any related works within an adjacent road 

reserve (path, verge or carriageway)

DS14   Road Occupancy License - Any works within 

the road reserve, for a State or Regional 
classified road, will require a Road Occupancy 
License to be obtained from the Planned 
Incidents Unit of the Traffic Management 
Centre of the RMS.  

The Application must include details of a Traffic 
Management Plan.

DS15   Other Consents under Section 138 of the 

Roads Act - An Application for Driveway 
Construction and Ancillary Works, Road 
Opening Permit or a Consent Letter from 
Council is required for all other types of works 
within the road reserve.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-320

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Appendices

a. Terms of Positive Covenant, and      
b. Restriction on the Use of Land

A2  

Existing Allotments
A1  

The Terms of Restriction on the Use of Land - 
Where there is no land sub-division (no Section 
88B instrument required) then the following 
standard wording is to be used for the "The 
Terms of Restriction on the Use of Land" and 
attached with the standard NSW Department of 
Lands form 13RPA.

Terms of Restriction on the Use of Land 
(Show full details of the Restriction)

The registered proprietors covenant with the City of 
Canada Bay Council (Council) that they will not: 

I. Do any act, matter or thing which would prevent 
the structure and works from operating in an efficient 
manner. 

II. Make any alterations or additions to the structure and 
works or allow any development within the meaning of 
the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979 
to encroach upon the structure and works without the 
express written consent of the authority. 

Ill. This covenant shall bind all persons who claim 
under the registered proprietors as stipulated in Section 
88E(5) of the Act. 

For the purposes of this covenant: 

Structure and Works shall mean the on-site stormwater 
detention (OSD) system constructed on the land as 
set out in the plan annexed hereto and marked with 
the letter "A" or alternatively as detailed on the plans 
approved by the Principal Certifying Authority: {INSERT 
DA NUMBER, DRAWING NUMBER, DATE, REVISION 
NUMBER AND DESIGNER DETAILS} including all 
gutters, pipes, drains, walls, kerbs, pits, grates, tanks, 
chambers, basins and surfaces designed to temporarily 
detain stormwater on the land. The Act means the 
Conveyancing Act 1919. 

The Terms of Positive Covenant - Where there is 
no land sub-division (no Section 88B instrument 
required) then the following standard wording 
for the "The Terms of Positive Covenant" is to 
be used and attached with the standard NSW 
Department of Lands form 13RPC.

Terms of Positive Covenant  
(Show full details of Positive Covenant)

The registered proprietors covenant with the City of 
Canada Bay Council (Council) that they will maintain 
and repair the structure and works on the land in 
accordance with the following terms and conditions:

I. The registered proprietor will: 

i. keep the structure and works clean and free from 
silt, rubbish and debris

ii. maintain and repair at the sole expense of the 
registered proprietors the whole of the structure 
and works so that it functions in a safe and efficient 
manner.

II. For the purpose of ensuring observance of the 
covenant the Council may by its servants or agents at 
any reasonable time of the day and upon giving to the 
person against whom the covenant is enforceable not 
less than two days notice (but at any time without notice 
in the case of an emergency) enter the land and view 
the condition of the land and the state of construction 
maintenance or repair of the structure and works on the 
land. 

Ill. The registered proprietors shall indemnify the 
Council and any adjoining land owners against any 
claims for damages arising from the failure of any 
component of the OSD system, or failure to clean, 
maintain and repair the OSD system. 

IV. By written notice the Council may require the 
registered proprietors to attend to any matter and to 
carry out such work within such time as the Council 
may require to ensure the proper and efficient 
performance of the structure and works and to that 
extent Section 88F(2) (a) of the Act is hereby agreed to 
be amended accordingly. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-321

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY V. Pursuant to Section 88F(3) of the Act the authority 
shall have the following additional powers pursuant to 
this covenant: 

i. In the event that the registered proprietor fails to 
comply with the terms of any written notice issued 
by the Council as set out above the Council or 
its authorised agents may enter the land with all 
necessary equipment and carry out any work which 
the Council in its discretion considers reasonable to 
comply with the said notice referred to in l hereof. 

ii. The Council may recover from the registered 
proprietor in a Court of competent jurisdiction: 

(a) Any expense reasonably incurred by it in 
exercising its powers under sub-paragraph i hereof. 
Such expense shall include reasonable wages for 
the Council's own employees engaged in effecting 
the said work, supervising the said work and 
administering the said work together with costs, 
reasonably estimated by the Council, for the use of 
machinery, tools and equipment in conjunction with 
the said work. 

(b) Legal costs on an indemnity basis for issue of 
the said notices and recovery of the said costs and 
expenses together with the costs and expenses of 
registration of a covenant charge pursuant to Section 
88F of the Act or providing any certificate required 
pursuant to Section 88G of the Act or obtaining any 
injunction pursuant to Section 88H of the Act.

VI. This covenant shall bind all persons who claim 
under the registered proprietors as stipulated in Section 
88E(5) of the Act.

For the purposes of this covenant: 

Structure and Works shall mean the on-site stormwater 
detention (OSD) system constructed on the land as 
set out in the plan annexed hereto and marked with 
the letter "A" or alternatively as detailed on the plans 
approved by the Principal Certifying Authority: {INSERT 
DA NUMBER, DRAWING NUMBER, DATE, REVISION 
NUMBER AND DESIGNER DETAILS} including all 
gutters, pipes, drains, walls, kerbs, pits, grates, tanks, 
chambers, basins and surfaces designed to temporarily 
detain stormwater on the land. The Act means the 
Conveyancing Act 1919. 

Land Sub-division
A3  

The Terms of Restriction on the Use of Land 
- Where a sub-division has been lodged and 
a Section 88B instrument created, then the 
following standard wording for the "The Terms of 
Restriction on the Use of Land" shall be used.

Terms of Restriction on the Use of Land 
referred to in the above-mentioned Plan

The registered proprietor covenant with the City 
of Canada Bay Council (Council) in respect to the 
structure erected on the land described as "on-site 
stormwater detention system" (which expression 
includes all ancillary gutters, pipes, drains, walls, kerbs, 
pits, grates, tanks, chambers, basins and surfaces 
designed to temporarily detain stormwater) shown on 
plans approved by the Principal Certifying Authority: 
{INSERT DA NUMBER, DRAWING NUMBER, DATE, 
REVISION NUMBER AND DESIGNER DETAILS} 
(hereinafter called "the system"). 

The registered proprietors covenant with the City of 
Canada Bay Council (Council) that they will not: 

I. Do any act, matter or thing which would prevent 
the structure and works from operating in an efficient 
manner. 

II. Make any alterations or additions to the structure and 
works or allow any development within the meaning of 
the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979 
to encroach upon the structure and works without the 
express written consent of the authority. 

Ill. This covenant shall bind all persons who claim 
under the registered proprietors as stipulated in Section 
88E(5) of the Act. 

For the purposes of this covenant: 

Structure and Works shall mean the on-site stormwater 
detention system constructed on the land as set out in 
the plan annexed hereto and marked with the letter "A" 
or alternatively as detailed on the plans approved by the 
Principal Certifying Authority: {INSERT DA NUMBER, 
DRAWING NUMBER, DATE, REVISION NUMBER 
AND DESIGNER DETAILS} including all gutters, pipes, 
drains, walls, kerbs, pits, grates, tanks, chambers, 
basins and surfaces designed to temporarily detain 
stormwater on the land. 

The Act shall mean the Conveyancing Act 1919. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-322

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY A4  

The Terms of Positive Covenant - Where a 
sub-division has been lodged and a Section 
88B instrument created, then the following 
standard wording for the "The Terms of Positive 
Covenant" shall be used.

Terms of Positive  Covenant referred to in the 
above- mentioned Plan

The registered proprietors covenant with the City of 
Canada Bay Council (Council) that they will maintain 
and repair the structure and works on the land in 
accordance with the following terms and conditions: 

I. The registered proprietor will:

i. keep the structure and works clean and free from 
silt, rubbish and debris 

ii. maintain and repair at the sole expense of the 
registered proprietors the whole of the structure 
and works so that it functions in a safe and efficient 
manner. 

II. For the purpose of ensuring observance of the 
covenant the Council may by its servants or agents at 
any reasonable time of the day and upon giving to the 
person against whom the covenant is enforceable not 
less than two days notice (but at any time without notice 
in the case of an emergency) enter the land and view 
the condition of the land and the state of construction 
maintenance or repair of the structure and works on the 
land. 

Ill. The registered proprietors shall indemnify the 
Council and any adjoining land owners against any 
claims for damages arising from the failure of any 
component of the OSD, or failure to clean, maintain and 
repair the OSD. 

IV. By written notice the Council may require the 
registered proprietors to attend to any matter and to 
carry out such work within such time as the Council 
may require to ensure the proper and efficient 
performance of the structure and works and to that 
extent Section 88F(2) (a) of the Act is hereby agreed to 
be amended accordingly. 

V. Pursuant to section 88F(3) of the Act the authority 
shall have the following additional powers pursuant to 
this covenant: 

i. In the event that the registered proprietor fails to 
comply with the terms of any written notice issued 
by the Council as set out above the Council or 
its authorised agents may enter the land with all 
necessary equipment and carry out any work which 
the Council in its discretion considers reasonable to 
comply with the said notice referred to in I hereof. 

ii. The Council may recover from the registered 
proprietor in a Court of competent jurisdiction: 

(a) Any expense reasonably incurred by it in 
exercising its powers under sub-paragraph i hereof. 
Such expense shall include reasonable wages for 
the Council's own employees engaged in effecting 
the said work, supervising the said work and 
administering the said work together with costs, 
reasonably estimated by the Council, for the use of 
machinery, tools and equipment in conjunction with 
the said work. 

(b) Legal costs on an indemnity basis for issue of 
the said notices and recovery of the said costs and 
expenses together with the costs and expenses of 
registration of a covenant charge pursuant to Section 
88F of the Act or providing any certificate required 
pursuant to Section 88G of the Act or obtaining any 
injunction pursuant to Section 88H of the Act. 

VI. This covenant shall bind all persons who claim 
under the registered proprietors as stipulated in Section 
88E(5) of the Act. 

For the purposes of this covenant: 

Structure and Works shall mean the on-site stormwater 
detention system constructed on the land as set out in 
the plan annexed hereto and marked with the letter "A" 
or alternatively as detailed on the plans approved by the 
Principal Certifying Authority: {INSERT DA NUMBER, 
DRAWING NUMBER, DATE, REVISION NUMBER 
AND DESIGNER DETAILS} including all gutters, pipes, 
drains, walls, kerbs, pits, grates, tanks, chambers, 
basins and surfaces designed to temporarily detain 
stormwater on the land. 

The Act means the Conveyancing Act 1919. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-323

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Generic Letter for Seeking Easement on 
Adjoining Land
B1  

The following generic letter can be used to seek 
easement/s from adjoining downstream properties.

Dear . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

I/we are proposing to redevelop our property at 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Before we can proceed with this proposal, Council has advised us that we need to seek a formal drainage 
easement (Council's preferred option) to convey the stormwater runoff from our property to the nearest 
downstream public stormwater drainage infrastructure or to a Council approved discharge point, being (street)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

This will require you to grant me/us a drainage easement through your property with all legal and survey 
costs for the creation of the easement being borne by us, together with any consideration for the use of your 
property as determined by an independent valuation or agreement.

(Attach independent valuation/agreement to this form)

The other alternative is to have the development of our site limited to a discharge rate nominated by Council 
to allow sufficient area between the house and our rear/side boundary next to your property to install an 
underground absorption system (if appropriate for this site) to spread and disperse the stormwater flows into 
the ground. Discharging our stormwater to the street frontage is not a preferred option for Council as this could 
severely impact on the capacity of the existing drainage system in the street. 

As the runoff and seepage from this system may flow towards your property because of the slope of the land, 
the best solution would be to have a drainage system that will convey our stormwater to (street) 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

You are advised that if Council determines that the only way for the drainage of stormwater is via an easement 
through your property, I/we may have to use Section 88K of the Conveyancing Act 1919 to request the 
Supreme Court to grant me/us the drainage easement. 

This will probably result in legal expenses and time spent for both you and I/us.

Could you please indicate your position regarding this matter so that we can advise Council to enable our 
application to progress?

YES I/we are/are not willing to grant you a drainage easement.

NO I/we are not willing to grant you a drainage easement.

Signed  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Dated  . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-324

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Intensity-Frequency-Duration Charts

Rhodes

Parameters Used

Concord West

Parameters Used

2 year I 1 hr: 35.87 I 12 hr: 7.57 I 72 hr: 2.39

2 year I 1 hr: 35.91 I 12 hr: 7.48 I 72 hr: 2.37

50 year I 1 hr: 70.00 I 12 hr: 16.00 I 72 hr: 5.22

50 year I 1 hr: 72.50  I 12 hr: 15.83 I 72 hr: 5.00

Co-efficient G: 0.00    

F2: 4.29

F50: 15.84

Co-efficient G: 0.00

F2: 4.29

F50: 15.84

Average Recurrence Interval (ARI) in mm/hour

Average Recurrence Interval (ARI) in mm/hour

Years

Years

Time

1

2

5

10

20

50

100

200

500

Time

1

2

5

10

20

50

100

200

500

5 min

89.7

115

145

162

186

216

238

261

292

5 min

89.5

115

146

165

189

220

244

268

300

6 min

84.0

108

136

153

174

203

224

246

274

6 min

83.9

108

138

155

177

207

229

252

283

7 min

79.4

102

129

144

165

192

212

233

260

7 min

79.2

102

130

146

168

198

217

239

268

8 mins

75.4 96.5

122

137

157

182

202

221

247

8 mins

75.2 96.6

124

139

160

187

207

228

255

9 mins

71.9 92.1

117

131

150

174

193

212

237

9 mins

71.7 92.2

118

133

153

178

198

218

244

10 mins

68.8 88.2

112

126

144

167

185

203

227

10 mins

68.7 88.3

113

127

146

171

190

209

235

12 mins

63.7 81.6

104

116

133

155

172

188

211

12 mins

63.5 81.7

105

118

136

159

176

194

218

14 mins

59.4 76.2 96.9

109

125

145

161

176

197

14 mins

59.3 76.3 98.0

111

127

149

165

182

205

15 mins

57.6 73.8 94.0

106

121

141

156

171

192

15 mins

57.4 73.9 95.0

107

123

144

161

177

199

16 mins

55.9 71.7 91.2

102

117

137

151

166

186

16 mins

55.7 71.7 92.3

104

120

140

156

172

193

18 mins

52.8 67.8 86.4 97.0

111

130

144

158

177

18 mins

52.7 67.9 87.4 98.7

114

133

148

163

183

20 mins

50.2 64.4 82.1 92.3

106

123

137

150

168

20 mins

50.1 64.5 83.1 93.9

108

127

141

155

175

25 mins

44.9 57.6 73.6 82.8 95.0

111

123

135

151

25 mins

44.8 57.7 74.5 84.3 97.2

114

127

140

157

30 mins

40.8 52.5 67.1 75.5 86.6

101

112

123

138

30 mins

40.7 52.5 68.0 77.0 88.8

104

116

128

144

40 mins

35.0 45.0 57.6 64.9 74.6 87.1 96.7

106

119

40 mins

34.9 45.0 58.4 66.3 76.5 90.0

100

111

125

50 mins

30.9 39.8 51.0 57.5 66.1 77.3 85.9 94.5

106

50 mins

30.8 39.8 51.8 58.8 67.9 80.0 89.2 98.5

111

1 hour

27.9 35.9 46.1 52.0 59.8 70.0 77.7 85.6 96.1

1 hour

27.8 35.9 46.8 53.2 61.5 72.5 80.9 89.4

101

1.5 hours 21.7 28.0 36.2 40.9 47.2 55.4 61.6 67.9 76.4

1.5 hours 21.6 28.0 36.6 41.6 48.2 56.9 63.6 70.3 79.5

2 hours

18.1 23.4 30.4 34.4 39.7 46.7 52.0 57.4 64.7

2 hours

18.0 23.4 30.6 34.9 40.4 47.8 53.4 59.1 66.9

3 hours

14.0 18.1 23.7 26.9 31.1 36.7 40.9 45.2 51.1

3 hours

13.9 18.1 23.7 27.1 31.5 37.2 41.6 46.2 52.3

4.5 hours 10.8 14.0 18.4 21.0 24.3 28.8 32.1 35.6 40.3

4.5 hours 10.7 13.9 18.4 21.0 24.4 29.0 32.4 36.0 40.8

6 hours

9.0

11.7 15.4 17.6 20.4 24.2 27.1 30.0 34.0

6 hours

8.9

11.6 15.3 17.6 20.4 24.3 27.2 30.2 34.2

9 hours

7.0

9.1

12.0 13.7 16.0 19.0 21.3 23.6 26.8

9 hours

6.9

9.0

11.9 13.6 15.9 18.9 21.2 23.5 26.7

12 hours

 5.8

 7.6

10.0 11.5 13.5 16.0 18.0 20.0 22.7

12 hours

5.7

7.5

9.9

11.4 13.3 15.8 17.8 19.8 22.5

15 hours

5.1

6.6

8.8

10.1 11.8 14.0 15.8 17.5 19.9

15 hours

5.0

6.5

8.7

10.0 11.6 13.8 15.5 17.3 19.6

18 hours

4.5

5.9

7.9

9.1

10.6 12.6 14.2 15.8 17.9

18 hours

4.5

5.9

7.8

8.9

10.4 12.4 13.9 15.5 17.6

24 hours

3.8

5.0

6.6

7.6

8.9

10.6 11.9 13.3 15.1

24 hours

3.8

4.9

6.5

7.5

8.7

10.4 11.7 13.0 14.7

30 hours

3.3

4.3

5.8

6.7

7.8

9.3

10.4 11.6 13.2

30 hours

3.3

4.3

5.7

6.5

7.6

9.0

10.1 11.3 12.8

36 hours

2.9

3.8

5.1

5.9

6.9

8.3

9.3

10.4 11.8

36 hours

2.9

3.8

5.1

5.8

6.8

8.0

9.0

10.0 11.4

48 hours

2.4

3.2

4.3

4.9

5.8

6.9

7.8

8.7

9.9

48 hours

2.4

3.2

4.2

4.8

5.6

6.7

7.5

8.3

9.4

72 hours

1.8

2.4

3.2

3.7

4.4

5.2

5.9

6.6

7.5

72 hours

1.8

2.4

3.1

3.6

4.2

5.0

5.6

6.2

7.1

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-325

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY North Strathfield

Parameters Used

Mortlake - Breakfast Point - Cabarita

Parameters Used

2 year I 1 hr: 37.60 I 12 hr: 7.71 I 72 hr: 2.45

2 year I 1 hr: 37.17  I 12 hr: 7.61 I 72 hr: 2.43

50 year I 1 hr: 77.00  I 12 hr: 16.20 I 72 hr: 5.03

50 year I 1 hr: 72.50  I 12 hr: 16.00  I 72 hr: 5.15

Co-efficient G: 0.00

F2: 4.29

F50: 15.85

Co-efficient G: 0.00

F2: 4.29

F50: 15.85

Average Recurrence Interval (ARI) in mm/hour

Average Recurrence Interval (ARI) in mm/hour

Years

Years

Time

1

2

5

10

20

50

100

200

500

Time

1

2

5

10

20

50

100

200

500

5 min

93.3

120

152

171

196

228

252

277

310

5 min

92.7

118

149

167

190

220

243

266

297

6 min

87.5

112

143

161

184

215

238

261

293

6 min

86.9

111

140

157

179

207

229

250

279

7 min

82.6

106

135

152

175

204

226

248

278

7 min

82.1

105

132

148

169

196

217

237

265

8 mins

78.4

101

129

145

166

194

215

236

265

8 mins

78.0 99.7

126

141

161

187

206

226

252

9 mins

74.8 96.1

123

138

159

186

206

227

254

9 mins

74.4 95.1

120

135

154

179

197

216

241

10 mins

71.6 92.1

118

133

153

178

198

218

244

10 mins

71.2 91.1

115

129

147

171

189

207

232

12 mins

66.3 85.2

109

123

142

166

184

203

228

12 mins

65.9 84.3

107

120

137

159

176

193

215

14 mins

61.8 79.6

102

116

133

156

173

190

214

14 mins

61.5 78.8 99.9

112

128

149

165

181

202

15 mins

59.9 77.2 99.3

112

129

151

168

185

208

15 mins

59.6 76.3 96.9

109

124

145

160

175

196

16 mins

58.2 74.9 96.4

109

125

147

163

180

202

16 mins

57.8 74.1 94.1

105

121

140

155

171

191

18 mins

55.0 70.9 91.4

103

119

140

155

171

192

18 mins

54.7 70.1 89.1 99.9

114

133

147

162

181

20 mins

52.3 67.4 87.0 98.4

113

133

148

163

184

20 mins

52.0 66.6 84.8 95.1

109

127

140

154

173

25 mins

46.7 60.3 78.1 88.5

102

120

134

147

166

25 mins

46.5 59.6 76.0 85.4 97.9

114

126

139

155

30 mins

42.5 54.9 71.3 80.8 93.4

110

122

135

152

30 mins

42.3 54.3 69.3 77.9 89.4

104

116

127

142

40 mins

36.4 47.1 61.4 69.8 80.7 95.1

106

117

132

40 mins

36.2 46.6 59.6 67.1 77.1 90.0 99.8

110

123

50 mins

32.2 41.7 54.5 62.0 71.8 84.8 94.7

105

118

50 mins

32.0 41.2 52.8 59.5 68.4 80.0 88.8 97.7

110

1 hour

29.0 37.6 49.3 56.2 65.2 77.0 86.1 95.3

108

1 hour

28.9 37.2 47.7 53.9 61.9 72.5 80.5 88.6 99.6

1.5 hours 22.5 29.2 38.4 43.8 50.8 60.1 67.2 74.5 84.3

1.5 hours 22.4 28.9 37.3 42.2 48.6 57.0 63.4 69.9 78.7

2 hours

18.8 24.4 32.0 36.5 42.4 50.2 56.2 62.3 70.5

2 hours

18.6 24.1 31.2 35.3 40.8 47.9 53.4 58.9 66.4

3 hours

14.5 18.8 24.7 28.3 32.8 38.9 43.5 48.3 54.7

3 hours

14.3 18.6 24.2 27.4 31.7 37.4 41.7 46.1 52.0

4.5 hours 11.1 14.5 19.1 21.8 25.4 30.1 33.7 37.4 42.4

4.5 hours 11.0 14.3 18.7 21.3 24.7 29.2 32.6 36.1 40.8

6 hours

9.2

12.0 15.9 18.2 21.1 25.1 28.1 31.2 35.4

6 hours

9.1

11.9 15.6 17.8 20.7 24.4 27.3 30.3 34.3

9 hours

7.1

9.3

12.3 14.0 16.4 19.4 21.8 24.2 27.4

9 hours

7.0

9.2

12.1 13.8 16.1 19.1 21.4 23.7 26.9

12 hours

5.9

7.7

10.2 11.7 13.6 16.2 18.2 20.2 22.9

12 hours

5.8

7.6

10.1 11.6 13.5 16.0 17.9 19.9 22.6

15 hours

5.2

6.7

8.9

10.2 11.9 14.1 15.8 17.6 20.0

15 hours

5.1

6.7

8.8

10.1 11.8 14.0 15.7 17.5 19.8

18 hours

4.6

6.0

8.0

9.1

10.6 12.6 14.2 15.7 17.8

18 hours

4.6

6.0

7.9

9.1

10.6 12.6 14.1 15.7 17.8

24 hours

3.9

5.1

6.7

7.7

8.9

10.6 11.8 13.1 14.9

24 hours

3.9

5.0

6.7

7.6

8.9

10.6 11.9 13.2 15.0

30 hours

3.4

4.4

5.8

6.7

7.7

9.2

10.3 11.4 12.9

30 hours

3.4

4.4

5.8

6.7

7.8

9.2

10.3 11.5 13.1

36 hours

3.0

3.9

5.2

5.9

6.9

8.2

9.1

10.1 11.5

36 hours

3.0

3.9

5.2

5.9

6.9

8.2

9.2

10.3 11.7

48 hours

2.5

3.3

4.3

4.9

5.7

6.7

7.5

8.3

9.5

48 hours

2.5

3.2

4.3

4.9

5.7

6.8

7.7

8.5

9.7

72 hours

1.9

2.4

3.2

3.7

4.3

5.0

5.6

6.2

7.1

72 hours

1.9

2.4

3.2

3.7

4.3

5.1

5.8

6.4

7.3

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-326

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Concord East - Canada Bay 

Five Dock - Rodd Point

Parameters Used

Parameters Used

2 year I 1 hr: 37.27  I 12 hr: 7.70  I 72 hr: 2.40

2 year I 1 hr: 38.64  I 12 hr: 7.78  I 72 hr: 2.43

50 year I 1 hr: 75.00  I 12 hr: 16.00  I 72 hr: 5.00

50 year I 1 hr: 77.50  I 12 hr: 16.20  I 72 hr: 5.00

Co-efficient G: 0.00    

F2: 4.29

F50: 15.85

Co-efficient G: 0.00    

F2: 4.29

F50: 15.85

Average Recurrence Interval (ARI) in mm/hour

Average Recurrence Interval (ARI) in mm/hour

Years

Years

Time

1

2

5

10

20

50

100

200

500

Time

1

2

5

10

20

50

100

200

500

5 min

92.7

119

151

169

193

225

248

272

305

5 min

95.9

123

155

173

197

229

253

277

309

6 min

86.9

111

141

159

182

211

234

257

287

6 min

89.9

115

145

163

186

216

238

261

291

7 min

82.1

105

134

150

172

200

222

243

272

7 min

84.9

109

138

154

176

204

226

248

277

8 mins

77.9 99.9

127

143

164

191

211

232

260

8 mins

80.7

103

131

147

168

195

215

236

264

9 mins

74.3 95.4

122

137

157

183

202

222

249

9 mins

77.0 98.6

125

140

160

187

206

226

253

10 mins

71.2 91.3

117

131

150

175

194

213

239

10 mins

73.7 94.4

120

134

154

179

198

217

243

12 mins

65.8 84.5

108

122

139

163

181

198

223

12 mins

68.2 87.4

111

125

143

167

185

203

227

14 mins

61.4 79.0

101

114

131

153

169

186

209

14 mins

63.6 81.7

104

117

134

156

173

190

213

15 mins

59.5 76.5 98.0

110

127

148

164

181

203

15 mins

61.7 79.2

101

114

130

152

168

185

207

16 mins

57.8 74.3 95.2

107

123

144

160

176

197

16 mins

59.8 76.8 98.1

110

127

148

164

180

202

18 mins

54.6 70.3 90.2

102

117

137

152

167

188

18 mins

56.6 72.7 93.0

105

120

140

155

171

192

20 mins

51.9 66.8 85.8 96.8

111

130

145

159

179

20 mins

53.8 69.1 88.5 99.7

114

134

148

163

183

25 mins

46.4 59.8 77.0 87.0

100

117

130

144

162

25 mins

48.1 61.9 79.5 89.6

103

121

134

147

165

30 mins

42.2 54.4 70.3 79.4 91.5

107

119

132

148

30 mins

43.8 56.4 72.6 81.9 94.3

110

123

135

152

40 mins

36.2 46.7 60.5 68.5 79.0 92.9

103

114

129

40 mins

37.5 48.4 62.5 70.7 81.5 95.7

106

117

132

50 mins

32.0 41.3 53.6 60.8 70.3 82.7 92.1

102

115

50 mins

33.2 42.8 55.5 62.9 72.6 85.3 95.0

105

118

1 hour

28.8 37.3 48.5 55.1 63.7 75.0 83.6 92.4

104

1 hour

29.9 38.6 50.2 57.0 65.8 77.5 86.4 95.4

108

1.5 hours 22.4 29.0 37.8 43.0 49.8 58.7 65.5 72.4 81.8

1.5 hours 23.2 30.0 39.0 44.3 51.3 60.4 67.4 74.5 84.1

2 hours

18.7 24.2 31.6 35.9 41.6 49.1 54.8 60.7 68.5

2 hours

19.2 24.9 32.5 37.0 42.8 50.5 56.3 62.3 70.4

3 hours

14.4 18.7 24.4 27.8 32.3 38.1 42.6 47.1 53.3

3 hours

14.8 19.1 25.0 28.5 33.1 39.0 43.6 48.3 54.6

4.5 hours 11.1 14.4 18.9 21.5 25.0 29.5 33.0 36.6 41.4

4.5 hours 11.3 14.7 19.3 22.0 25.5 30.2 33.7 37.4 42.3

6 hours

9.2

12.0 15.7 18.0 20.9 24.7 27.6 30.6 34.6

6 hours

9.4

12.2 16.0 18.3 21.2 25.1 28.1 31.1 35.3

9 hours

7.1

9.2

12.2 13.9 16.2 19.1 21.4 23.8 26.9

9 hours

7.2

9.4

12.3 14.1 16.4 19.4 21.8 24.1 27.3

12 hours

5.9

7.7

10.2 11.6 13.5 16.0 17.9 19.9 22.5

12 hours

6.0

7.8

10.3 11.7 13.7 16.2 18.1 20.1 22.8

15 hours

5.2

6.7

8.9

10.1 11.8 14.0 15.6 17.4 19.7

15 hours

5.2

6.8

9.0

10.2 11.9 14.1 15.8 17.5 19.9

18 hours

4.6

6.0

7.9

9.1  10.5 12.5 14.0 15.5 17.6

18 hours

4.7

6.1

8.0

9.2

10.6 12.6 14.1 15.7 17.8

24 hours

3.9

5.0

6.6

7.6

8.8

10.5 11.7 13.0 14.7

24 hours

3.9

5.1

6.7

7.7

8.9

10.5 11.8 13.1 14.8

30 hours

3.4

4.4

5.8

6.6

7.7

9.1

10.2 11.3 12.8

30 hours

3.4

4.4

5.8

6.6

7.7

9.1

10.2 11.4 12.9

36 hours

3.0

3.9

5.1

5.9

6.8

8.1

9.1

10.0 11.4

36 hours

3.0

3.9

5.2

5.9

6.9

8.1

9.1

10.1 11.4

48 hours

2.5

3.2

4.2

4.8

5.6

6.7

7.5

8.3

9.4

48 hours

2.5

3.2

4.3

4.9

5.7

6.7

7.5

8.3

9.4

72 hours

1.8

2.4

3.2

3.6

4.2

5.0

5.6

6.2

7.0

72 hours

1.9

2.4

3.2

3.6 

4.2

5.0

5.6

6.2

7.0

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-327

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Drummoyne - Chiswick - Abbotsford - 
Wareemba - Russell Lea

Parameters Used

2 year I 1 hr: 39.13  I 12 hr: 8.00  I 72 hr: 2.50

50 year I 1 hr: 80.00  I 12 hr: 16.83  I 72 hr: 5.35

Co-efficient G: 0.00    

F2: 4.29

F50: 15.86

Average Recurrence Interval (ARI) in mm/hour

Years

Time

1

2

5

10

20

50

100

200

500

5 min

96.9

124

157

176

201

233

258

283

316

6 min

90.8

116

148

165

189

220

243

267

298

7 min

85.8

110

140

157

179

209

231

253

283

8 mins

81.5

104

133

149

171

199

220

242

271

9 mins

77.7 99.7

127

143

163

191

211

232

260

10 mins

74.4 95.5

122

137

157

183

203

223

250

12 mins

68.8 88.4

113

127

146

170

189

208

233

14 mins

64.3 82.6

106

119

137

160

178

195

219

15 mins

62.3 80.1

103

116

133

155

173

190

213

16 mins

60.4 77.8 99.8

112

129

151

168

185

208

18 mins

57.2 73.6 94.6

107

123

144

160

176

197

20 mins

54.3 70.0 90.1

102

117

137

152

168

189

25 mins

48.6 62.7 80.9 91.5

106

124

138

152

171

30 mins

44.2 57.1 73.9 83.7 96.6

114

126

140

157

40 mins

37.9 49.0 63.7 72.4 83.7 98.5

110

121

137

50 mins

33.5 43.3 56.6 64.4  74.6 88.0 98.2

109

123

1 hour

`30.2  39.1  51.2  58.4  67.7  80.0  89.4  99.0  112

1.5 hours 23.4 30.4 39.9 45.5 52.8 62.4 69.8 77.4 87.5

2 hours

19.5 25.3 33.3 38.0 44.1 52.2 58.4 64.7 73.3

3 hours

15.0 19.5 25.7 29.4 34.1 40.4 45.2 50.2 56.8

4.5 hours 11.6 15.0 19.8 22.7 26.4 31.3 35.0 38.8 44.0

6 hours

9.6

12.5 16.5 18.9 22.0 26.1 29.2 32.4 36.8

9 hours

7.4

9.6

12.7 14.6 17.0 20.2 22.6 25.1 28.5

12 hours

6.1

8.0

10.6 12.2 14.2 16.8 18.9 21.0 23.8

15 hours

5.4

7.0

9.3

10.6 12.4 14.7 16.5 18.4 20.9

18 hours

4.8

6.2

8.3

9.5

11.1 13.2 14.8 16.5 18.7

24 hours

4.0

5.2

6.9

8.0

9.3

11.1 12.4 13.8 15.7

30 hours

3.5

4.5

6.0

6.9

8.1

9.6

10.8 12.0 13.7

36 hours

3.1

4.0

5.4

6.2

7.2

8.6

9.6

10.7 12.2

48 hours

2.6

3.3

4.4

5.1

6.0

7.1

8.0

8.9

10.1

72 hours

1.9

2.5 

3.3

3.8

4.5

5.3

6.0

6.7

7.6

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-328

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Rhodes Peninsula Site Specific  Requirements

Minimum Standards

Street Lighting

MS1   General - The minimum engineering standards 

ST1   Design Requirements - All street lights shall 

given in this Appendix applies to all proposed 
developments in the Rhodes Peninsular area. 

be designed and installed to the requirements, 
specification and approval of Energy Australia.   

The general standards given in the main body 
of this Engineering Development Control Plan 
will still apply where no reference or detail is 
given in this Appendix.

Shared Paths

SP1   Shared cycle ways and footpaths - shared 
cycle ways and footpaths shall be provided 
in all public domain areas. They shall be 
constructed to the following standards: 

•   Wearing surface material shall be of concrete 

100mm thick, 32MPa compressive strength and 
reinforced with F72 mesh placed centrally. 

•  Concrete pavement shall be of uniform colour 
to match existing area. Coloured black oxide 
may be used. 

•  Concrete pavement to have keyed or dowelled 
joints at 12 metre centres. Control joints shall 
be saw cut at 3 metre intervals as soon as 
the concrete has set sufficiently as to not pull 
stones when cutting.  

•  Concrete pavement shall be laid on a 20mm 

sand blinding layer on a compacted sub-grade 
in accordance with the AUSPEC specification.

•  Concrete pavement shall be finished with a 

coving trowel.

Seawalls

All street lights are to be connected to the 
Energy Australia street lighting network.

ST2   Maintenance - All lighting and associated 

electrical components shall be designed to a 
public standard.  

Energy Australia shall be responsible for the 
maintenance and continual future maintenance 
of all street lights.

ST3   Meters and Switch Boards - meters, switch 

boards and the like shall be separate from any 
private system and located wholly within land 
proposed to be dedicated as public domain in 
the future. 

Park Lighting

PL1  

PL2  

Lighting Type - 'Bega Pole 8682 Lights' or 
equivalent are acceptable.  

Prohibited - Bollard lighting, solar lighting or 
similar will not be acceptable.  

Council has found that the high vandalism 
and unreliability of these lights makes them 
unsustainable. 

Tree Planting

TP1   General - Refers to tree planting in road 

carriageways and footways in general.

SE1   Serviceability Level - Seawalls shall be 

TP2  

constructed to a serviceable level in 
accordance with the Australian Standards for 
Marine Structures.  

SE2   Sea Level Rise - Seawalls shall be designed 
and constructed to withstand a 1 in 100 year 
ARI storm event with no overtopping inclusive 
of additional height of 900mm to account for 
sea level rise.

Jetty

JE1  

Prohibited - Jetties or similar structures are 
prohibited. 

Council is unable to maintain and renew jetties 
due to financial constraints.

Street Trees - Street trees generally shall be 
planted within a square reinforced concrete 
cut-off wall as a structural root barrier. 
Approved synthetic root barrier systems or 
equivalent may be used in footway areas 
(pedestrian access areas only).  

Where street trees are to be planted in road 
carriageways (pavement area subject to 
vehicular loads), it shall be planted within a 
square reinforced concrete cut-off wall only. 

The root barriers shall be extended 300mm 
below the road pavement. The purpose of the 
root barriers is to protect the road pavement 
from moisture and root ingress.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-329

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
Design Life of all Structures

SD3   Sub-surface Water - Sub-surface water 

DL1   General - All public infrastructure shall be 

designed and selected to provide the least 
lifecycle costs with respect to maintenance 
and renewal of the infrastructure throughout its 
entire serviceable life.

DL2  

Seawalls - Seawalls shall be designed and 
constructed for a minimum design life of 
100 years in accordance with the Australian 
Standards for Marine Structures. 

DL3   Road Pavements - All new road pavements 

shall be designed for a service life of not 
less than 40 years. Refer Section Road 
Carriageway

Civic Signage

collected from basements and all lowered 
floor areas shall not be discharged directly 
to the kerb. Refer to Section 3 Stormwater 
Management, Sub-surface Water for further 
guidelines.

SD4   Scour and Erosion Control - Refer to Section 

3 Stormwater Management for further 
guidelines.

Road Pavement

RP1   General - All new road pavements shall be 

designed for a minimum 2.5 x 106 ESA. 

RP2   California Bearing Ratio - Testing shall be 

undertaken to obtain CBR values for pavement 
design.    

SG1   General - All signage shall be designed and 

installed in accordance with Canada Bay 
Council's Signage Manual.

The CBR value shall be obtained using the four 
(4) day soak test with the standard procedure 
adopted by the RMS.

Garbage Bins

GR1  

 General - All garbage bins shall be minimum 
240 Litres wheelie bin type and housed in 
stainless steel and timber surround (model no. 
EM235 Bennelong Bin Enclosures by Emerdyn 
Pty Ltd).

Stormwater Drainage

SD1  

 General - Stormwater drainage systems shall 
be designed generally in accordance with 
Section Stormwater Management.

SD2   On-site Stormwater Detention - On-site 

stormwater detention (OSD) shall be required 
for all proposed development allotments unless 
drainage from the developed site is discharged 
directly into the Bay, or that the street trunk 
drainage system has been designed to cater 
for the 1 in 100 year ARI storm event.  

Where OSD is required, the permissible site 
discharge shall be based on a "greenfields" site 
with an impervious area of 0%.

RP3   Wearing Surface - Road pavement wearing 

surface shall be constructed as flexible or rigid 
to match existing pavements or as approved by 
Council.

Works as Executed Drawings and Asset Data

WAE1    Works-As-Executed Drawings - Prior to 

handing over land or assets to Council, the 
developer is to provide Works-As-Executed 
drawings prepared and certified by a registered 
surveyor.  

The plans are to be provided in the form of:

•  A1 size pdf drawings suitable for archiving 

(vector based, not raster ) and

•  A vector format suitable for importing into 

Council's Land Information Systems (MapInfo) 
or Cad systems (AutoCAD).

WAE2    Detailed Asset Data - Prior to handing over 

land or assets to Council, the developer is to 
provide detailed asset data at a component 
level for importation into Council's Asset 
Management System.  

Information required will depend on the 
components and the developer should submit 
a component list to Council for further advice. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-330

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY The following list is representative of what 
would be required:

•  A vector representation of the component and 
its location on MGA94 coordinates linked to:

 – Description.

 – Material details.

 – Design life.

 – Installation date.

 – Acquisition date.

 – Dimensional and quantity information where 
it is not defined by the graphic object (e.g. 
The length of a pipe can be represented 
by the length of a line object on the plan. A 
data value representing the diameter needs 
to be attached to that line object. The area 
of a segment of road can be defined by 
a polygon. A data value representing the 
pavement depth needs to be attached to the 
polygon.) 

 – Valuation at installation date.

It is recommended that these requirements be 
considered at the design documentation stage. 

For more complex and proprietary items, 
for example pumps or lighting systems, the 
developer shall provide to Council's satisfaction 
details of Brand, Model, Supplier, Warranty, 
Installation Guide, User Guide, Safety 
Instructions, Servicing Record, Maintenance 
Manual, Keys etc as appropriate.

Community Land

CL1  

CL2  

Plan of Management - This Section provides 
a guideline for the preparation of a Plan of 
Management for open space land which will be 
transferred to Council as community land.

The Local Government Act - The Local 
Government Act 1993 emphasises that 
Plans of Management should be prepared for 
all community land for which Council will be 
responsible to ensure land it owns or controls 
is actively and effectively managed.

CL3   Description of Use - The Plan of Management 
should describe how public land will be 
managed, maintained and utilised, who is 
responsible for its management, its facilities 
and the uses and activities that occur there.

CL4  

Status - The plan should show the status 
of each park or reserve and the planning of 
each, meet the other requirements of the Act 
pertaining to community land management, 
have informed the community based on a 
consultative process and establish a framework 
for meeting community needs regarding open 
space.

CL5  

Strategic Document - The plan would be a 
strategic document with prioritised actions 
which give Council flexibility to develop 
strategies consistent with the objectives 
identified in its Management Plan.

CL6   Development of Opportunities  - The plan 

should also enable Council to take advantage 
of any opportunities that arise during the 
life of the plan that enable implementation 
of the strategies in ways that may be 
more cost-effective, more time efficient, or 
in some other way provide benefits that 
were unavailable or not recognised during 
preparation of the plan.

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-331

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Strathfield Triangle Site Specific Requirements

Minimum  Standards

MS1   General - The minimum engineering standards 

given in this Appendix applies to all proposed 
developments in the North Strathfield area 
otherwise known as the Strathfield Triangle. 

The general standards given in the main body 
of this Engineering Specification will still apply 
where no reference or detail is given in this 
Appendix. 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-332

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY .
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o
y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

I

T
S
L
G
N
W
A
R
D

I

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

-

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

0
0
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
7
5
:
0
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

5
P

S
E
E
R
T
G
N
T
S
X
E

I

I

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

D
N
E
G
E
L
S
K
R
O
W
E
T
S

I

S
E
T
O
N
S
K
R
O
W
H
T
R
A
E
K
L
U
B

I

N
G
S
E
D
N

I

Y
T
E
F
A
S

S
E
T
O
N
G
N
T
N
O
J

I

I

I

N
O
T
A
M
R
O
F
N

I

I

S
E
C
V
R
E
S
D
N
A
Y
E
V
R
U
S

S
E
T
O
N
L
A
R
E
N
E
G

I

S
E
C
V
R
E
S
G
N
T
S
X
E

I

I

S
E
R
U
T
C
U
R
T
S
G
N
T
S
X
E

I

I

g
n
i
t
n
o
J

i

t
n
e
m
e
v
a
P
r
a
l
u
c
i
h
e
V

Y
E
V
R
U
S

I

G
N
N
R
A
W

-

I

S
E
C
V
R
E
S
D
N
U
O
R
G
R
E
D
N
U

I

D
N
E
G
E
L
S
E
C
V
E
S
G
N
T
S
X
E

I

I

S
E
T
O
N
T
N
E
M
E
C
R
O
F
N
E
R

I

I

S
L
A
R
E
T
A
M
S
U
O
D
R
A
Z
A
H

D
N
E
G
E
L
T
N
E
M
E
V
A
P

S
E
T
O
N

I

S
E
T
O
N
E
G
A
N
A
R
D
R
E
T
A
W
M
R
O
T
S

I

I

S
N
O
T
D
N
O
C
D
N
U
O
R
G

R
E
T
A
W
D
N
U
O
R
G

I

S
N
O
T
A
V
A
C
X
E

i

g
n
i
t
n
o
J
h
t
a
p
t
o
o
F
n
a
i
r
t
s
e
d
e
P

e
t
a
D

v
e
R

o
N
g
w
D

e
l
t
i
T
g
w
D

t
n
a
t
l
u
s
n
o
C

I

S
G
N
W
A
R
D
E
C
N
E
R
E
F
E
R

D
N
E
G
E
L
Y
E
V
R
U
S

S
E
C
A
P
S
D
E
N
F
N
O
C

I

I

G
N
L
D
N
A
H
L
A
U
N
A
M

I

N
O
T
U
L
L
O
P
R
E
T
A
W

:

r
e
b
m
u
N

i

)
g
n
n
e
p
O
r
a
e
l
C

(

r
e
v
o
C

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

e
p
y
T

1
1
C

E
L
U
D
E
H
C
S
T
P

I

:
e
t
o
N

T
N
E
M
E
V
O
M
E
L
C
H
E
V

I

I

S
E
T
O
N
G
N
K
R
A
M
E
N
L
D
N
A
S
N
G
S

I

I

I

I

S
E
T
O
N
G
N
H
S
N
F
E
T
E
R
C
N
O
C

I

/

S
S
E
R
G
E
S
S
E
C
C
A
E
T
S

I

I

I

I

N
O
T
A
C
F
S
S
A
L
C
E
R
U
S
O
P
X
E

S
E
T
O
N
E
T
E
R
C
N
O
C

E
T
E
R
C
N
O
C

S
E
T
O
N
G
N
B
R
E
K

I

K
R
O
W
M
R
O
F

E
T
O
N
T
N
E
M
E
S
A
E
D
N
A
Y
R
A
D
N
U
O
B

S
E
T
O
N
S
K
R
O
W
E
T
S

I

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

T
E
E
H
S
S
D
N
E
G
E
L
D
N
A
S
E
T
O
N

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

g
n

i
t
t
i

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

t
t

@
d
y
s
w

7
7
3

5
6
0
2

.

.

.

t
t

d
t
L

8
7
5

3
1
1

y
t
P
)

1
6
+

N
C
A

6
4
1
3

W
S
N

9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

9
3
4
9
2

t
e
e
r
t

8
8
2
7

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

S

F

T

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o

i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-333

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o
y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

I

L
O
R
T
N
O
C
T
N
E
M
D
E
S
D
N
A
N
O
S
O
R
E

I

S
E
T
O
N

s
k
r
o
W

f

O
e
c
n
e
u
q
e
S

I

I

G
N
T
S
E
T
Y
T
L
A
U
Q
R
E
T
A
W

S
T
N
E
M
E
R
U
Q
E
R

I

I

T
N
E
M
D
E
S
D
N
A
N
O
S
O
R
E

I

D
N
E
G
E
L
L
O
R
T
N
O
C

I

I

R
E
T
L
F
T
N
E
M
D
E
S
E
L
A
B
Y
A
H

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

2
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

W
P

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

0
0
5
1

:

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

1
0
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
6
5
:
0
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

I

T
N
E
M
D
E
S
D
N
A
N
O
S
O
R
E

I

N
A
L
P
L
O
R
T
N
O
C

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

g
n

i
t
t
i

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

t
t

@
d
y
s
w

7
7
3

5
6
0
2

.

.

.

t
t

d
t
L

3
1
1

8
7
5

y
t
P
)

1
6
+

N
C
A

6
4
1
3

W
S
N

9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

9
3
4
9
2

t
e
e
r
t

8
8
2
7

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

S

F

T

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t

p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

I

P
A
R
T
T
N
E
M
D
E
S
B
R
E
K
G
A
B
D
N
A
S

I

I

R
E
T
L
F
T
P
E
L
T
X
E
T
O
E
G

I

I

L
A
T
E
D
E
C
N
E
F
N
O
T
A
T
L
S

I

I

I

D
N
U
O
R
R
U
S
T
P
R
E
T
L
F
E
L
T
X
E
T
O
E
G

I

I

P
A
R
T
T
N
E
M
D
E
S
T
E
L
N

I

I

B
R
E
K
G
A
B
D
N
A
S

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

I

N
A
R
D
H
C
T
A
C
H
G
U
O
R
H
T
N
O
T
C
E
S
L
A
C
P
Y
T

I

I

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-334

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o
y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

V
L

V
L

V
L

V
L

V
L

V
L

L   V

L   V

L   V

L   V

L   V

129

136
311

130

137

309

310

603

128
596

283

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

7
P

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

2
0
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
8
5
:
0
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

0
5
2
1

:

1
T
E
E
H
S
N
A
L
P
S
K
R
O
W
E
T
S

I

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

X

X

X

X

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

L V

L V

L V

L V

L V

L V

L V

L V

L V

g
n

i
t
t
i

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

t
t

@
d
y
s
w

7
7
3

5
6
0
2

.

.

.

t
t

d
t
L

8
7
5

3
1
1

y
t
P
)

1
6
+

N
C
A

6
4
1
3

W
S
N

9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

9
3
4
9
2

t
e
e
r
t

8
8
2
7

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

S

F

T

i

:

:

l

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o

i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-335

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o
y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

134

133

542

132

131

S

V

V

L

S
L

V
L

V
L

X

S
L

S

V

V

L

S

V

S
L

S
L

S
L

X

V
L

V
L

X

X

V
L

V
L

V
L

S
L

S
L

S
L

S
L

V
L

V
L

S V

S V

L V

V
L

V
L

V
L

V
L

V
L

V
L

L V

L V

L V

L V

L V

L V

V
L

V
L

V
L

S
L

S
L

S
L

V
L

V
L

V
L

S
L

S
L

S
L

V
L

V
L

S
L

S
L

V
L

V
L

S
L

S
L

V
L

S
L

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

8
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

0
5
2
1

:

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

3
0
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
8
5
:
0
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

2
T
E
E
H
S
N
A
L
P
S
K
R
O
W
E
T
S

I

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

g
n

i
t
t
i

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

t
t

@
d
y
s
w

7
7
3

5
6
0
2

.

.

.

t
t

d
t
L

3
1
1

8
7
5

y
t
P
)

1
6
+

N
C
A

6
4
1
3

W
S
N

9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

9
3
4
9
2

t
e
e
r
t

8
8
2
7

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

S

F

T

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o

i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-336

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o
y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a
t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d
s
h
T

i

.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a
t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b
t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

V

L

V

L

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

V
L

V
L

V
L

V
L

V
L

V
L

V
L

V
L

V
L

V
L

V
L

S V

V
S

V
L

V
S

L V

S V

S V

940

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

63

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-337

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

7
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

0
5
2
1

:

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

4
0
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
4
0
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2
,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

3
T
E
E
H
S
N
A
L
P
S
K
R
O
W
E
T
S

I

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

8
7
5

7
7
3

3
1
1

N
C
A

6
4
1
3

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

9
3
4
9
2

@
d
y
s
w

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

8
8
2
7

9
3
4
9

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

T

F

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

7
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

0
5
2
1

:

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

5
0
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
9
0
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

4
T
E
E
H
S
N
A
L
P
S
K
R
O
W
E
T
S

I

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

L V

L V

L V

L V

L V

L V

L V

L V

L V

L V

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

8
7
5

7
7
3

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

F

T

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

431

V

L

427

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

V

L

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-338

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

5
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

N
W
O
H
S
S
A

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

6
0
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
9
0
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

D
N
E
G
E
L
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

R
E
M
A
L
C
S
D

I

I

N
O
T
C
E
S
L
A
N
D
U
T
G
N
O
L

I

I

T
E
E
R
T
S
R
E
P
O
O
C

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

t
t

t
t

7
7
3

8
7
5

3
1
1
.

N
C
A

6
4
1
3

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

9
3
4
9
2

@
d
y
s
w

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

8
8
2
7

9
3
4
9

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

F

T

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-339

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

5
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

N
W
O
H
S
S
A

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

7
0
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
1
1
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

D
N
E
G
E
L
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

R
E
M
A
L
C
S
D

I

I

N
O
T
C
E
S
L
A
N
D
U
T
G
N
O
L

I

I

D
N
A
D
A
O
R
S
T
L
I
H

E
N
A
L
R
E
T
S
E
C
E
L

I

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

8
7
5

7
7
3

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

F

T

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-340

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

5
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

N
W
O
H
S
S
A

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

8
0
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
2
1
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

D
N
E
G
E
L
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

R
E
M
A
L
C
S
D

I

I

N
O
T
C
E
S
L
A
N
D
U
T
G
N
O
L

I

I

T
E
E
R
T
S
E
C
N
E
R
A
L
C

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

8
7
5

7
7
3

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

F

T

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-341

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

2
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

N
W
O
H
S
S
A

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

9
0
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
3
1
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

1
T
E
E
H
S
S
L
I
A
T
E
D

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

I

G
N
T
O
O
F
N
G
S
K
R
A
P

I

I

G
N
T
O
O
F
E
R
U
T
C
U
R
T
S
E
D
A
H
S

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

8
7
5

7
7
3

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

F

T

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-342

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

I

C
L
A
T
E
D

I

A
L
A
T
E
D

T
N
E
M
E
V
A
P
E
T
E
R
C
N
O
C
O
T
D
R
A
L
L
O
B

E
L
B
A
V
O
M
E
R

I

L
A
T
E
D
T
P
E
E
R
T

I

)
J
E

I

(
T
N
O
J
N
O
S
N
A
P
X
E

I

)
J
P
W

I

(
T
N
O
J
E
N
A
L
P
D
E
N
E
K
A
E
W

)

I

I

P
Y
T
(
L
A
T
E
D
N
O
T
C
E
N
N
O
C
T
L
A
H
P
S
A
D
E
Y
E
K

)

E
C

(

E
G
D
E
E
T
E
R
C
N
O
C

)

A
S

(

E
P
Y
T
B
R
E
K
S
M
R

I

G
N
S
S
O
R
C
R
A
L
U
C
H
E
V

I

)
J
E
D

I

I

(
T
N
O
J
N
O
S
N
A
P
X
E
D
E
L
L
E
W
O
D

)
J
S

I

(
T
N
O
J
L
O
R
T
N
O
C
N
W
A
S

)

G
&
K

(

R
E
T
T
U
G
D
N
A
B
R
E
K

)

O
K

(

Y
L
N
O
B
R
E
K

)
T
&
K
R

(

E
O
T
D
N
A
B
R
E
K
D
E
L
L
O
R

)

D
D

(

I

N
A
R
D
H
S
D

I

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

6
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

N
W
O
H
S
S
A

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

0
1
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
8
1
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

2
T
E
E
H
S
S
L
I
A
T
E
D

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

8
7
5

7
7
3

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

F

T

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-343

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

L
I
A
T
E
D
H
C
N
E
R
T

S
A
E
R
A
D
E
V
A
P
N

I

L
I
O
S
B
U
S

)

I

P
F
(
T
N
O
P
G
N
H
S
U
L
F

I

 C
E
P
Y
T
T
P

I

 B
E
P
Y
T
T
P

I

 A
E
P
Y
T
T
P

I

I

S
L
A
T
E
D
R
E
N
R
O
C
T
P

I

E
L
I
A
T
E
D

 D
E
P
Y
T
T
P

I

S
A
E
R
A
D
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
N

I

L
I
O
S
B
U
S

)

R

I
(

I

R
E
S
R
E
T
A
D
E
M
R
E
T
N

I

I

I

L
A
T
E
D
P
E
T
S
S
S
E
C
C
A
T
P

I

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

6
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

N
W
O
H
S
S
A

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

1
1
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
8
1
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

3
T
E
E
H
S
S
L
I
A
T
E
D

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

8
7
5

7
7
3

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

T

F

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-344

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

4
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

N
W
O
H
S
S
A

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

2
1
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
9
1
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

1
T
E
E
H
S
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

7
7
3

8
7
5

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

F

T

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-345

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

4
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

N
W
O
H
S
S
A

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

3
1
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
9
1
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

2
T
E
E
H
S
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

7
7
3

8
7
5

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

F

T

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-346

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

5
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

N
W
O
H
S
S
A

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

4
1
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
3
2
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

3
T
E
E
H
S
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

8
7
5

7
7
3

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

T

F

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-347

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

4
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

N
W
O
H
S
S
A

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

5
1
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
4
2
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

D
N
E
G
E
L
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

R
E
M
A
L
C
S
D

I

T
E
E
H
S
S
N
R
U
T
E
R
B
R
E
K

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

8
7
5

7
7
3

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

T

F

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-348

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

5
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

0
0
1
1

:

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

6
1
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
9
2
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

D
N
E
G
E
L
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

R
E
M
A
L
C
S
D

I

1
T
E
E
H
S
S
N
O
T
C
E
S
S
S
O
R
C

I

T
E
E
R
T
S
R
E
P
O
O
C

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

8
7
5

7
7
3

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

F

T

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-349

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

D
N
E
G
E
L
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

R
E
M
A
L
C
S
D

I

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

0
0
1
1

:

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

7
1
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
9
2
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

5
P

2
T
E
E
H
S
S
N
O
T
C
E
S
S
S
O
R
C

I

T
E
E
R
T
S
R
E
P
O
O
C

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

8
7
5

7
7
3

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

T

F

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-350

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

5
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

0
0
1
1

:

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

8
1
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
0
3
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

D
N
E
G
E
L
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

R
E
M
A
L
C
S
D

I

1
T
E
E
H
S
S
N
O
T
C
E
S
S
S
O
R
C

I

D
N
A
D
A
O
R
S
T
L
I
H

E
N
A
L
R
E
T
S
E
C
E
L

I

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

8
7
5

7
7
3

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

T

F

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-351

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

5
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

0
0
1
1

:

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

9
1
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
4
3
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

D
N
E
G
E
L
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

R
E
M
A
L
C
S
D

I

2
T
E
E
H
S
S
N
O
T
C
E
S
S
S
O
R
C

I

D
N
A
D
A
O
R
S
T
L
I
H

E
N
A
L
R
E
T
S
E
C
E
L

I

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

8
7
5

7
7
3

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

T

F

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-352

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

5
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

0
0
1
1

:

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

0
2
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
4
3
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

D
N
E
G
E
L
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

R
E
M
A
L
C
S
D

I

T
E
E
R
T
S
E
C
N
E
R
A
L
C

I

S
N
O
T
C
E
S
S
S
O
R
C

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

8
7
5

7
7
3

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

T

F

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-353

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

5
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

1
2
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

0
0
2
1
V

:

0
0
2
1
H

:

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
6
3
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

I

I

L
A
N
D
U
T
G
N
O
L
R
E
T
A
W
M
R
O
T
S

1
T
E
E
H
S
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

7
7
3

8
7
5

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

F

T

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-354

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

5
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

2
2
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

0
0
2
1
V

:

0
0
2
1
H

:

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
7
3
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

I

I

L
A
N
D
U
T
G
N
O
L
R
E
T
A
W
M
R
O
T
S

2
T
E
E
H
S
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

7
7
3

8
7
5

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

T

F

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-355

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

5
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

3
2
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

0
0
2
1
V

:

0
0
2
1
H

:

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
7
3
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

I

I

L
A
N
D
U
T
G
N
O
L
R
E
T
A
W
M
R
O
T
S

3
T
E
E
H
S
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

7
7
3

8
7
5

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

T

F

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-356

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

5
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

4
2
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

0
0
2
1
V

:

0
0
2
1
H

:

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
8
3
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

I

I

L
A
N
D
U
T
G
N
O
L
R
E
T
A
W
M
R
O
T
S

4
T
E
E
H
S
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

7
7
3

8
7
5

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

T

F

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-357

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o

y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

5
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

K
P

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

5
2
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

0
0
2
1
V

:

0
0
2
1
H

:

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
8
3
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

I

I

L
A
N
D
U
T
G
N
O
L
R
E
T
A
W
M
R
O
T
S

5
T
E
E
H
S
S
N
O
T
C
E
S

I

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

.

.

.

t
t

t
t

7
7
3

8
7
5

3
1
1

N
C
A

5
6
0
2

W
S
N

@
d
y
s
w

6
4
1
3
9
3
4
9

g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

8
8
2
7
9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

2
1
6
+

t
e
e
r
t

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

y
t
P
)

d
t
L

S

F

T

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-358

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
n
o
i
t
a
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
a

t
u
o
h
t
i

w
d
e
s
u

e
b

t
o
n

t
s
u
m
d
n
a

d
t
L

y
t
P

)

W
S
N

(

I

G
N
T
T
H
W

I

N
O
S
M
O
H
T
R
O
L
Y
A
T

f
o
y
t
r
e
p
o
r
p

e
h
t

s

i

d
n
a

t
h
g
i
r
y
p
o
c

s

i

i

g
n
w
a
r
d

i

s
h
T

i

n
o
s
v
e
R

i

2
P

d
e
s
i
r
o
h
t
u
A

n
w
a
r
D

W
P

1
A

:

l

e
a
c
S

0
0
1
1

:

o
N
g
n
w
a
r
D

i

6
2
C

3
7
3
1
3
1

o
N

b
o
J

m
a
9
3
:
1
1

-

6
1
0
2

,
2
1

p
e
S

:
d
e
t
a
e
r
C
e

l
i

F

t
o
P

l

N
A
L
P
S
E
L
C
R
C
G
N
N
R
U
T

I

I

I

E
L
G
N
A
R
T
D
L
E
F
H
T
A
R
T
S

I

g
n

i
t
t
i

.

u
a
m
o
c
.
w

t
t

@
d
y
s
w

7
7
3

5
6
0
2

.

.

.

t
t

d
t
L

3
1
1

8
7
5

y
t
P
)

1
6
+

N
C
A

6
4
1
3

W
S
N

9
3
4
9
2

s
d
r
a
n
o
e
L
.
t

h
W
n
o
s
m
o
s
r
e
h
e
n
T
g
n
r
E
o
g
n
i
t
y
l
u
s
a
n
T T
o
C

S
s
o
d
n
a
h
C
8
4

(
g
n
i
t
t
i
h
W
n
o
s
m
o
h
T

9
3
4
9
2

t
e
e
r
t

8
8
2
7

1
6
+

W
S
N

l

r
o
y
a

S

F

T

i

:

:

l

t

e
a
D

t
f

a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o
i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

e
t
a
D

t
f
a
r
D

g
n
E

n
o

i
t
p
i
r
c
s
e
D

v
e
R

j

t
c
e
b
u
S

t
e
e
h
S

j

t
c
e
o
r
P

t

n
e

i
l

C

1
A

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-359

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Flow Charts Rainwater Reuse

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-360

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Stormwater Management Type 2 Developments

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-361

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Stormwater Management Type 3 to 9 Developments 

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-362

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Driveway and Ancillary Works 

O
N

d
e
d
n
u
f
e
r
d
n
o
B

?
s
k
r
o
w

O
N

r
o
t
c
a
r
t
n
o
C

l

e
t
e
p
m
o
c
o
t

l

i

a
d
e
m
e
r

S
E
Y

y
l
p
p
a
y
a
m
e
e
f
n
o
i
t
c
e
p
s
n
i
-
e
R

y
l
p
p
a
y
a
m
e
e
f
n
o
i
t
c
e
p
s
n
i
-
e
R

e
t
i
s
e
h
t

s
I

a
r
o
f
y
d
a
e
r

L
A
N
I
F

?
n
o
i
t
c
e
p
s
n

i

S
E
Y

t
c
a
t
n
o
C

o
t

l
i
c
n
u
o
C

t
s
e
u
q
e
r

n
o
i
t
c
e
p
s
n

i

O
N

o
t

l
i
c
n
u
o
C
t
c
a
t
n
o
C

n
o
i
t
c
e
p
s
n

i

t
s
e
u
q
e
r

e
c
i
t
o
n

’
s
r
u
o
h
8
4
(

)
d
e
r
i
u
q
e
r

S
E
Y

o
t

l
i
c
n
u
o
C
t
c
a
t
n
o
C

n
o
i
t
c
e
p
s
n

i

t
s
e
u
q
e
r

e
c
i
t
o
n

’
s
r
u
o
h
8
4
(

)
d
e
r
i
u
q
e
r

S
E
Y

e
h
t

s
I

K
R
O
W
M
R
O
F

e
b
o
t
y
d
a
e
r

?
d
e
t
c
e
p
s
n

i

O
N

a
s
I

N
O
I
T
A
V
A
C
X
E
-
E
R
P

l

d
e
t
a
u
p
i
t
s
n
o
i
t
c
e
p
s
n

i

l

?
a
v
o
r
p
p
a
r
u
o
y
n

I

e
t
o
u
q
-
e
r
n
a
c

l
i
c
n
u
o
C

,

d
e
r
i
p
x
e
f
I

O
N

l
i
c
n
u
o
C
t
p
e
c
c
A

?
e
t
o
u
Q

w
e
n
e
t
a
n
m
o
N

i

?
r
o
t
c
a
r
t
n
o
C

O
N

S
E
Y

e
g
d
o

l

d
n
a
n
a
t
b
O

i

y
r
a

l
l
i
c
n
A
r
o
/
&
y
a
w
e
v
i
r
D

N
O
I
T
C
U
R
T
S
N
O
C
s
k
r
o
W

r
o
t
c
a
r
t
n
o
C
e
t
a
v
i
r
P
y
b

m
r
o
f
n
o
i
t
a
c
i
l

p
p
A

S
E
Y

d
e
s
u
f
e
r
y
a
w
e
v
i
r
D

O
N

e
g
d
o

l

d
n
a
n
a
t
b
O

i

r
o
/
&
y
a
w
e
v
i
r
D

s
k
r
o
W
y
r
a

l
l
i
c
n
A

N
O
I
T
A
C
O
L

m
r
o
f
n
o
i
t
a
c
i
l

p
p
A

t
r
a
t
S

d
a
e
r
&
n
a
t
b
O

i

y
a
w
e
v
i
r
D
s
’
l
i
c
n
u
o
C

s
k
r
o
W
y
r
a

l
l
i
c
n
A
&

d
n
a
s
s
e
c
o
r
P

n
o
i
t
c
u
r
t
s
n
o
C

s
n
o
i
t
a
c
i
f
i
c
e
p
S

f
o
n
o
i
t
a
c
i
f
i
t
r
e
C

s
k
r
o
W

g
n
i
t
i
r

w
n

i

d
e
u
s
s
i

S
E
Y

l

i

a
d
e
m
e
r

i

t
p
e
c
e
R

/

t
n
e
m
y
a
p
s
k
r
o
w

d
n
o
B
m
o
r
f

t
c
u
d
e
d

y
b
d
e
s
i
v
d
a
f
i

g
n
i
t
i
r

w
n

i

t
n
a
c
i
l

p
p
a

f
o
n
o
i
t
a
c
i
f
i
t
o
N

/
S
K
R
O
W
E
T
E
L
P
M
O
C
N

I

E
C
N
A
I
L
P
M
O
C
-
N
O
N

.
g
n
i
t
i
r

w
n

i

d
e
u
s
s
i

o
t

s
t
s
o
c

l
i
c
n
u
o
C
s
e
d
u
l
c
n

I

s
k
r
o
w
y
f
i
t
c
e
r

t
n
a
c
i
l

p
p
a
t
c
a
t
n
o
C

t
n
o

i

j

m

r
i
f
n
o
c
o
t

s
l
i

a
t
e
d
n
o
i
t
c
e
p
s
n

i

t
n
a
c
i
l

p
p
a
t
c
a
t
n
o
C

t
n
o

i

j

m

r
i
f
n
o
c
o
t

s
l
i

a
t
e
d
n
o
i
t
c
e
p
s
n

i

f
o
n
o
i
t
a
c
i
f
i
t
o
N

r
o
t
c
a
r
t
n
o
C

L
A
S
U
F
E
R

g
n
i
t
i
r

w
n

i

d
e
u
s
s
i

d
e
t
s
e
u
q
e
r

r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

f
o
n
o
i
t
a
c
i
f
i
t
r
e
C

?
s
k
r
o
W

l

e
u
d
e
h
c
S

n
o
i
t
a
c
i
f
i
t
c
e
r

s
k
r
o
w

O
N

t
e
e
m

s
k
r
o
W

l
i
c
n
u
o
C

?
s
d
r
a
d
n
a
t
s

k
r
o
w
m
r
o
F

?
d
e
v
o
r
p
p
a

S
E
Y

S
E
Y

n
o
i
t
c
u
r
t
s
n
o
C

L
A
V
O
R
P
P
A

g
n
i
t
i
r

w
n

i

d
e
u
s
s
i

O
N

S
E
Y

k
r
o
w
r
e
p
a
P

?
k
o

k
r
o
w
r
e
p
a
p
k
c
e
h
C

l

e
b
a
c
i
l

p
p
a
e
k
a
t
d
n
a

&
s
e
e
f
n
o
i
t
c
e
p
s
n

i

t
n
e
m
y
a
p
d
n
o
B

i

t
p
e
c
e
R

e
t
o
u
Q

t
n
e
m
y
a
p

y
a
w
e
v
i
r
D

&
L
A
V
O
R
P
P
A

n

i

d
e
u
s
s
i

E
T
O
U
Q

g
n
i
t
i
r

w

y
a
w
e
v
i
r
D

d
e
u
s
s
i

L
A
S
U
F
E
R

g
n
i
t
i
r

w
n

i

S
E
Y

n
o
i
t
a
c
i
l

p
p
A

?
d
e
v
o
r
p
p
a

O
N

t
n
o

i

j

e
g
n
a
r
r
A

e
t
i
s

n
o
i
t
c
e
p
s
n

i

t
n
a
c
i
l

p
p
a
h
t
i

w

S
E
Y

k
r
o
w
r
e
p
a
P

?
k
o

k
r
o
w
r
e
p
a
p
k
c
e
h
C

l

e
b
a
c
i
l

p
p
a
e
k
a
t
d
n
a

e
e
f
n
o
i
t
a
c
i
l

p
p
a

t
n
e
m
y
a
p

s
k
r
o
w
e
k
a
t
r
e
d
n
u

l
i
c
n
u
o
C

o
t

s
k
r
o
w
e
u
d
e
h
c
S

l

1
2
n
h
t
i

i

w
e
c
n
e
m
m
o
c

f
o
n
o
i
t
a
c
i
f
i
t
o
n
f
o
s
y
a
d

t
n
e
m
y
a
p

N
G
I
S
E
D
/
N
O
I
T
A
C
O
L
F
O
L
A
V
O
R
P
P
A
–
S
S
E
C
O
R
P
Y
A
W
E
V
R
D
S
’
L
I
C
N
U
O
C
F
O
1
T
R
A
P

I

I

R
O
T
C
A
R
T
N
O
C
E
T
A
V
R
P
Y
B
N
O
I
T
C
U
R
T
S
N
O
C
F
O
L
A
V
O
R
P
P
A
–
S
S
E
C
O
R
P
Y
A
W
E
V
R
D
S
’
L
I
C
N
U
O
C
F
O
2
T
R
A
P

I

N
O
I
T
A
C
I
L
P
P
A
F
O
D
N
E

T
X
E
T

T
X
E
T

T
X
E
T

:
Y
E
K

APPLICANT

COUNCIL

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-363

T
R
A
H
C
W
O
L
F
S
S
E
C
O
R
P
S
K
R
O
W
Y
R
A
L
L
I
C
N
A
&
Y
A
W
E
V
R
D

I

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Standard Engineering Drawings

Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-364

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-365

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-366

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-367

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-368

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-369

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-370

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-371

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-372

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-373

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-374

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-375

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-376

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-377

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY Canada Bay DCP - Appendix 2             ########PageApp2-378

Development Control Plan Appendix 2     Engineering SpecificationsCITY OF CANADA BAY 